cdsCode|lea|priorityNumber|summary|meetingDate|additionalInfo|performance|year
19642120000000|ABC Unified|6|The results from the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) were: 57% of 5th graders, 63% of 7th graders, 40% of 9th graders, and 39% of 11th graders reported high levels of school connectedness. In comparison to the 2017-18 CHKS results, there was a slight percentage increase for students in 5th and 7th grade reporting high levels of connectedness. The data for 9th graders indicate a decline, and the data for students in grade 11 remains the same for student connectedness. The ‘school connectedness’ data includes students’ sense of safety at their schools. Every school in ABC demonstrated a significant increase in the percentage of students who indicated agree or strongly agree in the area of school connectedness. The California School Parent Survey indicate 95% of parents/guardians agree or strongly agree that school is a safe place for students, this is a 2% increase from last year. Ninety-one percent of ABC employees who completed the survey indicated they feel safe, which is a 2% increase from the previous school year.   Students’ sense of connectedness and safety are District priorities. In August of 2019, every school received a permanent mental health professional(s) (MHP) who works directly supporting individual students and student groups. Support from the MHP helps students to feel connected to school and promotes student engagement in their school community. The District continues to improve school and facilities safety with changes to public entrance on school campuses, improvement to student drop-off and pick-up areas, and camera installations. Beginning in fall 2019, the District and all schools are using the visitors management system to issue temporary ID badges to any person entering a school or district building without a District issued ID. The Board has contracted with a consultant firm who will provide a report on the current safety status of each school and recommend areas of improvement. The Board and district staff will use the Consultant’s recommendations to improve safety measures in schools and district buildings.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19769680109926|Academia Avance Charter|6|Participation Rate  Academia Avance Charter School administered it’s own college readiness survey in conjunction with the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 6-12 with a total of 287 students (over 86% participation rate) that participated. The students surveyed also included socio-economically disadvantaged, English Learners and homeless youth.   Survey Findings  The following are the student survey findings:  • 89.9% stated that they participated in the Avance College Week tours this year. • 81.9% stated that they “agree” and “strongly agree” that adults at this school encourage me to work hard so I can be successful in college or at the job I choose. • 70% stated that students at this school are motivated to learn. • 74.1% stated they felt “loved” and “strongly loved” the College Week experience.  • 78.7% stated that “my teachers work hard to help me with my schoolwork when I need it.” • 81.5% stated teachers give students a chance to take part in classroom discussions or activities. • 78%  stated that this school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn.  •74.8% stated they were “likely to attend a 4 year college or university after they graduate from High School?” • 75.3% stated that teachers go out of their way to help students. • 73.5% stated that “my teachers give me useful feedback on my work.” • 74% stated that adults at this school treat all students with respect. • 57.5% stated that they feel the school rules are “fair” and 29.6% stated that they feel “neutral”.  • 61% stated that this school helps students resolve conflicts with one another. • 71% stated that If “I tell a teacher that someone is bullying me, the teacher will do something to stop it.” • 70% stated that Teachers in this school respect a student’s’ differences (for example, gender, race, culture, sexual orientation). • 57% stated that the schoolyard and buildings are clean and in good condition and 26.5% stated they felt “neutral”. • 75% stated that this school has “helped me think about and explore future career options.” • 74% stated that this school has “helped me learn about colleges, how to apply to them, and get financial aid if I need it.”|2019-10-26|Our school will utilize the results of the Avance college readiness and CHKS survey to inform the LCAP, stakeholders, improve schoolwide support services, school climate, and increase student participation rates with the goal to continuously improve outcomes.|Met|2019
19647330120097|Academia Moderna|6|Key learnings from a survey that was given to parents about Back to School Night showed that 70% parents appreciated the new format to the program. Seventy-five percent of the parents said that they found the presentation about the school's instructional focus and goals helpful, which happened at a Coffee with the Principal meeting prior.   Key learnings from a survey taken by students at the start of October have shown that over 50% of students reported that they had not missed school yet this year.  Twelve percent of the students reported that they missed 3 or more days.  It was reported that about 75% of the students eat breakfast either at home or school.  About 50% of students reported that they feel proud to be a student at Academia Moderna with 45% feeling motivated at school the majority of the time. Over 70% of the students feel that adults on campus listen to them and treat them fairly.  In terms of bullying over 70% of students shared that the school makes it clear that bullying is not allowed, and about the same percentage would report bullying to an adult on campus.  Over 80% of the students reported that if bullying happens, something will be done.  Less than 50% of the students would actually try to stop bullying if they saw it and reported that over 70% of students feels that the conflict will be resolved.  An overwhelming majority of the students reported that smoking, and drinking is "very bad" for your health. Key learnings from a survey taken by staff indicated that 80% of staff emphasize agree or strongly agree that they work in a supportive environment. Fifty percentof the staff indicidate that they would like more training in different areas such as stanards based instruction, behavioral supports, IB, and English Learners.|2019-10-08|Academia Moderna is implementing Positive Behavioral Interventions & Supports. The staff believes that consistency and repetition is key to establish a climate where appropriate behavior is the norm. The staff is committed to modeling and rewarding students when appropriate behaviors are shown.|Met|2019
19642460126003|Academies of the Antelope Valley|6|DATA: School pride grew to over 98% agreement for students; it grew for parents from 96% agreement to 100%; employee pride grew to 100% agreement (9% growth in strongly agree).  Caring relationships grew for student to 96%; for parents it grew to over 98%; employee maintained a 99% of being intentional about creating positive relationships with students.  Students feeling safe at school grew to 93% (improving by about 4%); parent’s perceptions of school safety grew to over 97% (6% growth to strongly agree); employees reported feeling safer at work to over 98% (2% growth to strongly agree).  Over 97% of students, parents and employees felt that the school provided enough resources to be successful.  90% of students feel there school is clean and well-maintained.  Parent’s perceptions of school cleanliness was 99% and employees were 98%.  For technology as a regular part of the student’s educational experience, students, parents and employees report over 98% agreement.  Open lines of communication are high for all stakeholders (95% for students, 99% for parents and 96% for employees).  Percentage of student participation in school related activities, clubs, programs or sports had 69% while parents and employees inflated this participation metric with 84% of parents saying their child is involved and 100% of employees saying they actively encourage student to be involved.  Student’s belief that there is a teacher or other adult at school who has high expectations of them grew to 93% while parents and employees guessed this number slightly higher at 98% and 100%.  Finally, connectedness to the school for students grew to 81% while parents and employees agreed with student connectivity at 98% and 92%. MEANING: This data revealed slow and steady progress at all of our schools.  Within this growth, disparities still exist between student perception and adult perception.  Areas of strength continue to be in overall school climate, including relationships between adults and students and school safety.  Work still needs to be done to improve the cleanliness of our campuses, particularly the older sites.  Connectivity to the school and student involvement seem to be strongly correlated and so efforts will be undertaken to increase school participation in activities, programs, clubs and sports. USE: Academies of the Antelope Valley reviewed this data and made adjustments to their Single Plans for Student Achievement based upon feedback received.  Each of the schools expressed joy in that many of their actions were already starting to yield results.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
36750773631207|Academy for Academic Excellence|6|In the fall of 2019, AAE conducted a student climate survey to all fourth, eighth, and twelfth-grade students. Students at AAE generally enjoy their school with 83% of students stating they like their school and 75% believing their length of the school day is about right. Students at AAE indicated an overwhelming feeling of connectedness to the teaching staff. 82% of students view teachers as being encouraging, providing meaningful assignments, offering assistance to struggling students, and recognizing achievement. While 74% of students believe that their school is safe and enjoyable, one glaring concern was the overall cleanliness of the campus. 64% of students believe that the campus is not being maintained well. To rectify this issue, a new facilities manager was hired at the start of the 2019-20 school year along with a groundskeeper. Several of the issues students commented on are being addressed or have already been resolved. The school is also in the process of hiring a nighttime facilities crew rather than contracting from the outside.   42% of students view harassment, intimidation, and bullying still being an issue at AAE. The school responded to this in 2018-19 with a new administrative structure, one Principal for TK-12, a Vice Principal for TK-5 and Vice Principal for 6th-12th grades to better meet the needs of students. In 2019-20, grades TK-8th are implementing research-based Social Emotional Learning programs to help students better resolve issues with peers and be proactive in dealing with everyday life issues. The school also implemented an SEL survey to be administered twice annually to students in grades 3-12, measuring the effectiveness of these programs and the emotional health of students.   Over 60% of students feel they have a voice in regards to their school. The Student Advisory Council continues in all three grade bands—high school, middle school, and elementary—meeting monthly with the current administration. Students continue to be encouraged to inform council members about concerns that can be brought to the council for discussion. Several items such as food quality and restroom cleanliness, have been improved due to this process.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
36677360116723|Academy of Careers and Exploration|6|The independence Charter Academy administers an annual climate survey that focuses on the student's perception of whole school, classroom, bus, cafeteria, and bathroom safety. These surveys are administered to every student in grade 2-12. The results are reported at annual stakeholder meetings in order to gain feedback for LCAP and Strategic Planning purposes as well as during open session of a regularly scheduled Board Meeting. Annual survey data has had an upward or stable trend over the past six years in all areas. Overall students feel that they attend school in a safe environment where those who are responsible care about their wellbeing. It should be noted that during the last survey administration bullying perceptions were reduced significantly and in the parent climate survey input was more than doubled.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
07616300000000|Acalanes Union High|6|AUHSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year, to all students in grades 9 and 11. The district has administered the following CHKS modules to the students: Core, Alcohol and Other Drugs, and Resilience & Youth Development. Results of the CHKS are reported in meetings to the Governing Board, parent organizations at the district and school level, students and staff. This review of the data in this Dashboard is based on the 2017-2018 administration of the CHKS. CHKS will be administered in November, 2019. School Safety High numbers of AUHSD students feel safe at their schools. 76% of 9th graders and 81% of 11th graders perceive their school as a very safe or safe environment. Differences are noted when the data is examined by subgroup. Among 9th graders it is noted that students identifying as Asian (76%), Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islanders (83%), White (77%)  and two or more races (74%) feel safer at schools while students identifying as Hispanic or Latino (72%) or Black or African American (61%) feel safe at school at the lower percentages. Similar trend is seen among AUHSD 11th graders with the exception of Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islanders where we note percent of students feeling safe drop to 64%. While the overall percent of students feeling safe is high and well above the state average, AUHSD staff has noted a three year downward trend. This, in addition to the gap in safety perception noted by subgroup is our area of focus. For those students feeling unsafe, experiencing harassment or bullying, especially cyber bullying was identified as the main reason.  Connectedness  High numbers of AUHSD students feel connected to their school. Based on the 2017-2018 CHKS, 63% of 9th graders and 58% 11th graders felt high levels of school connectedness. 2017-2018 CHKS connectedness data was not available broken down by subgroup. AUHSD staff noted a three year downward trend relating to students feeling connected on AUHSD campuses. This is a focus of all schools and is represented in the Single Site Plans for School Achievement goals. In addition to the CHKS survey, AUHSD administered Challenge Success – Stanford Survey of School Experiences during the 2018-2019 school year. The survey reports an increase in percent of students feeling connected to adults on campus and an upward (positive) trend in this area.  AUHSD has placed specific focus on the issue of connectedness as well as social and emotional health of our students. This is also reflected in the LCAP goals. This goal was in part due to the CHKS data that 24% of 9th graders and 36% of 11th graders experience chronic sadness and hopelessness and 16% of 9th and 20% 11th graders report suicide ideation in the past 12 months. LCAP goals have resulted in various wellness initiatives including opening Wellness Centers staffed with mental health specialists at each campus.|2019-10-16|AUHSD utilizes California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) as a School Climate evaluation tool.  CHKS is administered by the state of California every other year and was not administered during the 2018-2019 school year, therefore the data utilized in the self-reflection tool is based on the 2017-2018 CHKS survey. AUHSD will be administering CHKS in November, 2019 to all 9th and 11th graders and this data will be utilized during the following year when completing this self-reflection tool.|Met|2019
19647336112536|Accelerated|6|The 2018-2019 LCAP Stakeholder Survey reports that The Accelerated School provides a safe environment for staff and students. Parents are satisfied with school response time and parents are pleased with the educational programs provided to their children. Parents voiced that they would like to take part in campus safety walk-throughs, which as a result, will be implemented this year. We have also included parents on more committees (such as they Wellness Committee) this school year so that this stakeholder voice can be heard in a timely manner. Stakeholders have also voiced that they feel that The Accelerated School provides a more rigorous academic program than similar or resident schools.  The Accelerated School will continue to analyze and evaluate the safety of the school, the academic programs offered at the school site, the cleanliness of the facilities, the courses offered to students and their effectiveness. This will be done through surveys, observations, and stakeholder input at various meetings.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
23656152330454|Accelerated Achievement Academy|6|According to the 2018-2019 student survey, 87% of students feel they are at least as successful or more successful than in previous years, 87% feel they learned more this year than in the past, 67% feel that they can talk to staff about their needs and 69% prefer Accelerated to their previous schools. On all questions, an average of 12% of students had no opinion.  The survey is an important metric for Accelerated Achievement Academy's LCAP goal to foster a positive school environment.  The school is focusing on making school a more enjoyable place with the addition of more field trips, speakers and activities.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647330100743|Accelerated Charter Elementary|6|The LCAP Stakeholder Survey reports that The Accelerated Charter Elementary School provides a safe environment for staff and students. Parents are satisfied with school response time and parents are pleased with the educational programs provided to their children. Parents voiced that they would like to take part in campus safety walk-throughs, which as a result, will be implemented this year. We have also included parents on more committees (such as the wellness committee) this school year so that this stakeholder voice can be heard in a timely manner. Stakeholders have also voiced that they feel that The Accelerated Charter Elementary School provides a more rigorous academic program than similar or resident schools.  The Accelerated Charter Elementary School will continue to analyze and evaluate the safety of the school, the academic programs offered at the school site, the cleanliness of the facilities, the courses offered to students and their effectiveness. This will be done through surveys, observations, and stakeholder input at various meetings.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
54722490133793|Accelerated Charter High|6|Each spring Tulare Joint Union High School District administers a climate survey to its students. This student survey is administered to sophomores and seniors. The total number of the responses for the survey in the spring of 2019 was 2,078 students.  The survey includes specific questions geared at school safety and student connections to school. The survey includes questions from the California Healthy Kids Survey, however, we do not use the California Healthy Kids Survey every year, as it is a lengthy survey, resulting in students at times rushing through it. Through the survey, the majority of the students (60%) in our district indicated that they feel close to people at school, with only 13% of the students disagreeing or strongly disagreeing. Fifty-six percent of the students indicated that they were happy to be at school, while 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed. Nearly half of the students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel like they are part of the school (46%), while only 18% disagreed or strongly disagreed. Additionally, 54% of the students indicated that they feel safe at school, while only 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed. In addition to the positive response regarding school climate and safety, students also indicated that at their school, they have access to: challenging courses, such as Advanced Placement and honors (71%)and the necessary instructional materials (84%). Based on the survey results, the majority of our students feel safe and welcomed at our schools. Even though this is a definite strength, our district continues to explore way to engage all of our students, especially the 30% that still do not feel connected to our school. One of our challenges includes continuing to create a climate where all students feel welcomed and connected to our sites. This has resulted in our district continuing to develop our PBIS program and incentives. Based on the survey results, our district continues to make it a priority to provide training to our staff on improving connections to students. This includes providing all of our teachers with mental health training. Lack of time is another challenge for our district and has led us to be creative with our training and opportunities that we provide to our students and teachers.  We are also continuing to explore different ways to provide students with more opportunities at Accelerated Charter High School.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
43694270125617|ACE Charter High|6|GOAL: ACE Charter High is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that staff create an optimistic, celebratory school environment based on ACE values that inspires growth, promotes student learning.   ASSESSMENT: Progress is assessed through 1) Panorama Survey Data, 2) Engagement Indicators (Attendance, Chronic Absenteeism, Suspension, Expulsion). Panorama was selected because it provides valid and reliable feedback about a wide range of the topics aligned to State Priorities and the school’s LCAP, including student and family engagement and school climate and culture.  ANALYSIS: On the Panorama Survey, 47% of students and 38% of staff rated the school culture as effective. The attendance rate was 90%, chronic absenteeism rate was 33%, and suspension rate was 17.1%. As the school experienced significant changes in staff, continued actions as detailed below will take place to re-establish a positive school culture and climate.  ACTIONS: The following actions support this goal: 1) Foster a sense of community through structures that support students being known well, including Advisory and Student-led Conferences, 2) Identify and facilitate events, experiences, and rewards that promote an optimistic, celebratory school environment; 3) Support students and families in connecting with mental health services, to support social and emotional development; 4)  Explore and expand sports and club offerings, aligned to student demand; 5) Provide ongoing professional development for teachers in strategies and practices that foster an optimistic, celebratory environment; 6) Continue to refine implementation of the behavior intervention ladder, to ensure consistency, responsiveness, and restoration.  2018-19 PROGRESS: ACE Charter High realized the following progress: 1) Sense of Community - Established three new Lead Teacher positions, to support community development: an Optimistic Culture Lead focused on student events and student government; an External Activities Lead focused on community partnerships and field trips that connect the classroom to careers; and a Leadership Lead focused on supporting the student leadership class and activities. 2) Behavior Intervention Ladder - Continued to refine behavior intervention ladder, making it more concise and easier to understand. This included implementation of both quick interventions for minor events and reflection time with the Assistant Dean for more serious infractions, complete with written and verbal reflection and restoration using restorative practices. 3) Events, Experiences, and Awards - Efforts included new awards night twice annually to celebrate students for both growth and achievement in academics, effort, and persistence and additional family events such as a spring cooking festival and car a car show. These events continue to strengthen the sense of community between school and home, as well as between students and families.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
43104390116814|ACE Empower Academy|6|GOAL: ACE Empower is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that staff create an optimistic, celebratory school environment based on ACE values that inspires growth, promotes student learning.     ASSESSMENT: Progress is assessed through 1) Panorama Survey Data, 2) Engagement Indicators (Attendance, Chronic Absenteeism, Suspension, Expulsion). Panorama was selected because it provides valid and reliable feedback about a wide range of the topics aligned to State Priorities and the school’s LCAP, including student and family engagement and school climate and culture.  ANALYSIS: On the Panorama Survey, 39% of students, 82% of families, and 75% of staff rated the school culture as effective. The attendance rate was 94%, chronic absenteeism rate was 14%, and suspension rate was 7.6% (a decrease of -1.9% from the prior year). While progress has been made in reducing suspensions, continued actions as detailed below will take place to further develop a positive school culture and climate.  ACTIONS: The following actions support this goal: 1) Foster a sense of community through structures that support students being known well, including Advisory and Student-led Conferences, 2) Identify and facilitate events, experiences, and rewards that promote an optimistic, celebratory school environment; 3) Support students and families in connecting with mental health services, to support social and emotional development; 4)  Explore and expand sports and club offerings, aligned to student demand; 5) Provide ongoing professional development for teachers in strategies and practices that foster an optimistic, celebratory environment; 6) Continue to refine implementation of the behavior intervention ladder, to ensure consistency, responsiveness, and restoration.  2018-19 PROGRESS: ACE Empower realized the following progress: 1) Sense of Community - Student Led Conferences were held in the Fall and will be held in the Spring. A new format was implemented that allowed families to meet with all of their child’s teachers in a rotation format held in the Student Union, rather than just their child’s College Seminar Teacher (Advisor). 2) Behavior Intervention Ladder - Teachers received training in implementation of the system and student incentives were increased via the Ganas store. The Restorative Justice (RJ) practice was expanded under the leadership of the Dean, with implementation of reflections, apology letters, and restorative circles. 3) Events, Experiences, and Awards - Posters were created and displayed in each classroom to track and monitor Ganas award recipients, with the Ganas store open every other week as students could cash in “paychecks” for awards. The new SEL Lead coordinated morning announcements and lunch time events that promoted a “joy factor” as well as healthy environment, from daily quotes to month-long foci on areas such as anti-bullying.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
43694500129247|ACE Esperanza Middle|6|GOAL: ACE Esperanza is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that staff create an optimistic, celebratory school environment based on ACE values that inspires growth, promotes student learning.   ASSESSMENT: Progress is assessed through 1) Panorama Survey Data, 2) Engagement Indicators (Attendance, Chronic Absenteeism, Suspension, Expulsion). Panorama was selected because it provides valid and reliable feedback about a wide range of the topics aligned to State Priorities and the school’s LCAP, including student and family engagement and school climate and culture.  ANALYSIS: On the Panorama Survey, 59% of students, 82% of families, and 90% of staff rated the school culture as effective. The attendance rate was 94%, chronic absenteeism rate was 20%, and suspension rate was 2.4% (a decrease of -6.9% from the prior year). As data is mixed in terms of school culture and climate, continued actions as detailed below will take place to maintain this culture and further improve it.  ACTIONS: The following actions support this goal: 1) Foster a sense of community through structures that support students being known well, including Advisory and Student-led Conferences, 2) Identify and facilitate events, experiences, and rewards that promote an optimistic, celebratory school environment; 3) Support students and families in connecting with mental health services, to support social and emotional development; 4)  Explore and expand sports and club offerings, aligned to student demand; 5) Provide ongoing professional development for teachers in strategies and practices that foster an optimistic, celebratory environment; 6) Continue to refine implementation of the behavior intervention ladder, to ensure consistency, responsiveness, and restoration.  2018-19 PROGRESS: ACE Esperanza realized the following progress: 1) Sense of Community - Parent-Teacher Conferences were held consistently, with students setting weekly goals using the Sown to Grow platform and receiving coaching support from their teachers in achieving them. As a result, students are more prepared for these conferences and able to articulate their learning and speak about the process. 2) Behavior Intervention Ladder - Reducing suspensions has been a major focus, with a reduction in the suspension rate. This was achieved by developing clear and consistent classroom and grade level practices, with tight grade level teams working together to support students and families and get in front of potential issues. 3) Events, Experiences, and Awards - Negotiated increased access to gymnasium for holding weekly morning assemblies, to celebrate student growth, promote positive school culture, and engage in team building. Two evening events were held for whole school awards to recognize semester long gains.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
43696660131656|ACE Inspire Academy|6|GOAL: ACE Inspire is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that staff create an optimistic, celebratory school environment based on ACE values that inspires growth, promotes student learning.   ASSESSMENT: Progress is assessed through 1) Panorama Survey Data, 2) Engagement Indicators (Attendance, Chronic Absenteeism, Suspension, Expulsion). Panorama was selected because it provides valid and reliable feedback about a wide range of the topics aligned to State Priorities and the school’s LCAP, including student and family engagement and school climate and culture.  ANALYSIS: On the Panorama Survey, 69% of students, 91% of families, and 50% of staff rated the school culture as effective. The attendance rate was 95%, chronic absenteeism rate was 15%, and suspension rate was 13.9% (a decrease of -0.7% from the prior year). As data is mixed in terms of school culture and climate, continued actions as detailed below will take place to further develop a positive school culture and climate.  ACTIONS: The following actions support this goal: 1) Foster a sense of community through structures that support students being known well, including Advisory and Student-led Conferences, 2) Identify and facilitate events, experiences, and rewards that promote an optimistic, celebratory school environment; 3) Support students and families in connecting with mental health services, to support social and emotional development; 4)  Explore and expand sports and club offerings, aligned to student demand; 5) Provide ongoing professional development for teachers in strategies and practices that foster an optimistic, celebratory environment; 6) Continue to refine implementation of the behavior intervention ladder, to ensure consistency, responsiveness, and restoration.|2019-10-16|2018-19 PROGRESS: ACE Inspire realized the following progress: 1) Sense of Community - Improved Goal Setting, Portfolio, and Student Led Conference practices developed agency for students and families. Students spent time in College Readiness setting goals using the Sown to Grow platform, with active review and feedback from their teachers. They gathered evidence of their work toward these goals to showcase in their Student Led Conferences. 2) Behavior Intervention Ladder - Established a discipline matrix geared toward reducing suspension, with clear steps for addressing disruptive behavior in the classroom and time for students to reflect. Implemented a robust Positive Behavior Intervention System (PBIS), leveraging the Kickboard platform to track merits and demerits (with a focus on a 3:1 ratio). 3) Events, Experiences, and Awards - Implemented events, experiences, and recognition to promote an optimistic and celebratory school environment, with a focus on building college awareness and readiness. Monthly assemblies rewarded individual student growth, as well as house achievement of the core values (respect, pride, ganas) with an incentive party.|Met|2019
01612590111476|Achieve Academy|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, Achieve administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and Achieve has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, Achieve families rated 4.2 on Leadership & Decisions, which includes evaluating shared decision-making and whether leadership is in tune with the community. Achieve families rated 4.3 on Community Relations, which includes evaluating communication with community and community members being invited to class. Based on results from the survey, Achieve will continue efforts to engage parents in students learning, such as developing skills to support literacy.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
04100410136820|Achieve Charter High|6||||Not Met|2019
04615310110338|Achieve Charter School of Paradise Inc.|6|Data from the Spring 2018 student survey reported: 75% 3-8 feeling safe at school 18% feeling neither safe or unsafe 8% feeling unsafe Although this was a new survey and measurement tool for us, in Spring 2017 92% of 3rd-8th graders reported feeling safe at school.  The 2018 survey was given after the Camp Fire when 100% of our students were declared homeless and were displaced by the Fire. Our school was located in a church facility and many students were living doubled up with other families, in trailers, or hotels.|2019-10-16|For the 2018-2019 school year Achieve is utilizing the SEL surveys from the CORE districts for students, parents, and staff.|Met|2019
31667610000000|Ackerman Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19753090000000|Acton-Agua Dulce Unified|6|AADUSD used a district-created survey that captures student perceptions related to school climate. The survey questions were selected to assess students' perceptions of feeling safe at school, feeling happy with their school, feeling the school is supportive, and feeling the school is clean and inviting.   Students in all grade levels responded to the surveys which included a 2nd through 12th grade version and a Kindergarten/1st grade appropriate version. Results were used to establish goals and actions contained in the district's LCAP.  The district's goal was to increase the percentage of students who "agree" or "strongly agree" by 2% annually for each of the questions.  81% of students agree the district provides a supportive environment; a 2% increase from prior year. 75% of students agree they feel safe at school; a 1% increase from prior year. 71% of students feel happy with their school; maintained from prior year. 57% of students feel the school's campus is clean and well maintained; an 30% decrease from prior year.   Student survey results demonstrate students feel happy with their school, a small increase in the percentage of students who feel safe at school as well as those who feel supported because they know they can get extra help learning when needed. The data shows a need to continue, enhance, and/or improve current actions that support students' feelings of clean and well-maintained schools.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
42767866118202|Adelante Charter|6|California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to all 5th graders this year. Survey data show Adelante 5th grade students find school to be a safe and supportive environment. Results are as follows: school connectedness and safety- 86% of 5th graders reported feeling safe at school all or most of the time, this sense of safety has been maintained over the years. 79% reported feeling connected to their school all of the time or most of the time, an increase of 5% from the previous year, and 94% reported that teachers treat students fairly at school all of the time or most of the time.  Parent School Climate Survey show 87% of English-speaking responders and 96% of Spanish-speaking responders (58% response rate) agree or strongly agree that behavioral expectations are clear and consistent. This is a 6% and 3% decrease respectively from last year’s responses. 78.3 % of English-speaking and 90.5 % of Spanish-speaking responders report their child feels safe from verbal abuse, teasing and exclusion at school. This represents a decrease from last year. 91% of English-speaking and 100% of Spanish-speaking responders agree or strongly agree that the elements of school life reflect the principles of equity, justice, respect and dignity of each individual. Identified need: Adelante wants to support all children to feel safe and connected at school. There is still work to be done to ensure this happens. Addressing bullying and verbal abuse using non-violence and restorative practices are a continued focus. Tribes Learning Communities are used in every classroom and are the foundation for building community and connection and addressing social emotional learning and restorative practices when conflict arises. Adelante staff are in the process of developing structures and processes for Restorative Approaches to discipline. Much of what Adelante does in terms of discipline supports the Restorative Approaches but lacks structures for consistency. Just Communities Central Coast has worked with staff to support this work and a committee is actively working toward implementation of new systems. This work is informed by the book Discipline That Restores which all staff were given.A committee comprised of teachers and staff is convening to identify structures and share with staff and parents.|2019-05-06||Met|2019
36675870000000|Adelanto Elementary|6|The LEA surveyed 5th and 8th grade students in 2018 – 19 and almost 500 responses were received. Below are the highlights  The statements with the highest percentage of "agreed or strongly agreed" were: 1. I feel proud to be part of my school  2. The classrooms at learning look welcoming and organized  3. I felt my teachers have high expectations for my academic success  4. My teacher let me know when I'm doing a good job  5. I feel that teachers at my school are generally nice people 6. I believe that there is at least one adult on campus that I could talk to you if I had an emergency and needed help  7. My school provides opportunities for my parents / guardians to visit and see what I do at school (assemblies, what ceremonies, please, sporting events, etc)  8. I know what I do if there was an emergency at my school The statements which were identified as focus areas based on having less than 70% (Agreed/Strongly Agreed) were:  1. The rules at my school fairly apply to all  2. I think students at my school generally get along well with each other  3. I do not worry about being hurt at school  4. At school, I am treated kindly even by people who think I'm different from them  5. Adult on campus listen to what I have to say Based on the lower positive responses to the statements, the below actions have been implemented: 1. Extensive training with Restorative Practices for all staff 2. Training for campus security staff and classroom para educators around student discipline and positive interventions 3. Trained all Principals on Alternative Dispute Resolution and will do that for all assistant administrators this year. 4. Providing SEL across all sites and set an expectation of conducting a 10 minute lesson in each class everyday 5. Introducing parent education classes around restorative practices and de-escalation at home 6. Working on creating Peer mediation program at the site 7. PBIS practices implemented and monitored across every campus 8. Anti-bullying workshops held throughout the year at all campuses 9. Partnering with community organizations to provide support for specific subgroups 10. Reviewing data closely to monitor disproportionate discipline infractions and consequences 11. Continuing to provide training in Trauma Informed Behaviors, student support services and counseling The district continues to work on areas of need based on feedback and anticipates an increase in positive affirmation in the statements which we are focusing on this year.|2019-10-29|The LEA continues to work with local and county resource providers to support student success. The community has several challenges:  1. The economic data shows that Adelanto is 45% below the poverty lines;  2. 90% of our students are in the National Lunch Program   3. Two federal prisons and three ICE detention centers are in the community;   4. High transition rates and declining enrollment for the past three years. All these criteria provide excessive stress and trauma on the community, families and the students in our schools. We experience an excessive amount of discipline and truancy issues. The LEA recognizes that despite the issues within the community, the school is a safe place and must provide a nurturing and supportive environment for all students. The district staff continues to institute support services to address student needs.|Met|2019
30666700135897|Advanced Learning Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
51105120138040|AeroSTEM Academy|6|AeroSTEM Academy has a growing reputation in the community for being a safe, small school setting. Input from stakeholders in the community indicate that AeroSTEM is perceived as a high quality school that limits class sizes, employs caring and innovative staff and teachers, and provides a much needed job skills based curriculum including vital aspects such as critical thinking, college and career exploration, public speaking, hands on mechanical and engineering skills, and state of the art STEM and CTE courses.   Parents feel engaged and heard and appreciate AeroSTEM’s willingness to respond quickly and flexibly to the needs of the students and families. State testing scores indicate that students at AeroSTEM are performing at least in the same range and in some instances in a higher performance range academically as compared to neighborhood schools. Students and Staff indicate they feel challenged and positive about the learning environment.|2019-10-11|AeroSTEM Academy has been fortunate to locate our classrooms at the local fairgrounds. While the grounds are beautiful and generally safe, they do not allow for the school to be locked in case of emergency and often people outside of the school staff are on the grounds and unmonitored. Teaching in rooms without walls is a challenge, but one that our teachers are rising to daily. AeroSTEM Board and administration is working diligently on moving the campus to our own facility at the Yuba Sutter Airport. This will create a safer, more contained and better supervised facility as well as individual classrooms better suited for positive learning environments. This move is expected to occur in the 2019-2020 school year.|Met|2019
19647330118588|Alain Leroy Locke College Preparatory Academy|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 3.9%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 89% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
01611190130609|Alameda Community Learning Center|6|ACLC surveys both its learners and families twice each year. These surveys were created and are continuously revised by the standing School Culture Committee. The learner survey focuses on a variety of issues that affect their experience at the school and with the school online. The family survey focuses on communication with the school and the ability to work with the school to support the learner.  For previous administrations and for both survey groups, the school received very high feedback on the portions that concerned digital communication and grade reporting. Families and learners alike clearly appreciate being able to contact their facilitators easily and being able to accurately and quickly access their progress in classes.  Most answers for most subgroups fell into second highest category, marking a good rating. Questions concerning a wide range of topics including programs, instructional and professional practices, and assessment all received favorable, if not the highest, responses from the community.  In addition to these surveys, our democratic model is based on collaborative decision-making; from our new logo to our annual Constitution Convention where we examine our learner-created school rules to learner and staff representation on the school boards to our leadership class that accepts proposals for changes to school policy and rules, we are a school where everyone is heard.  ACLC received average scores on the survey mentioned above in its disciplinary practices and facilities. Specifically, learners felt that the disciplinary policies needed to be revisited, although parents rated them highly. For facilities, the school occupies an out site, but cleanliness was also noted. While the school is cleaned twice daily, many learners, particularly at lunch do not properly dispose of their trash. This is an unfortunate tradition that needs to be addressed.  Overall, the school receives favorable results in almost all areas, and families and learners alike enjoy the ACLC experience in almost all facets.|2019-10-18||Met|2019
01100170000000|Alameda County Office of Education|6|ACOE/SPAS provided a pilot climate survey to all of our 9-12 grade students at each school site in 2017-18 for the first time and this survey will be conducted on a bi-annual basis or every other year thereafter. Our sites do not serve  elementary students which is why these grade levels are not assessed for school climate. As a pilot, we administered a  pilot Climate Survey to parents measuring the following indicators for each of our programs: safe and supportive environments, active and engaged learning, youth voice and leadership, healthy choices and behaviors, diversity, access and equity, healthy choices and behaviors, quality staff, and collaborative partnerships. We plan survey students and families across the LEA during the 2019-20 school year to measure school climate.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
01611190000000|Alameda Unified|6|Alameda Unified School District (AUSD) administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to monitor school climate. Students are surveyed in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 and the results are provided at the district and school site level. Overall, the district performs near or above state average on all key indicators of school climate with the exception of meaningful participation. To track school climate more deeply across years, AUSD focuses on an individual question in the CHKS: Student safety: the percentage of students reporting that they feel safe or very safe in school. Overall, AUSD scores highly in students reporting feeling safe at school particularly in the elementary level (85%). However, this percentage is generally maintaining across years. Grade 5: 84% in 2017; 86% in 2018; 85% in 2019. Grade 7: 71% in 2017, 62% in 2018, 64% in 2019 Grade 9: 65% in 2017; 60% in 2018; 64% in 2019. Grade 11: 65% in 2017; 63% in 2018; 64% in 2019. It should be noted that the percentages in 2019 represent vast improvements from those in 2015 where the student-reported indicator was 48%.  Student groups are not self-reported by students in the Elementary administration of the CHKS. In secondary, student group differences in feeling safe on their campus varies widely by school. Two of the secondary schools report significant differences by student group in students' feeling safe at school, three schools do not have significant populations of student groups and therefore did not receive survey results from those groups, and one school did not have a significant differences in perceptions of safety by student groups.  At the elementary level, in 2018-19 AUSD adopted a social emotional learning curriculum and provided training to staff. At the secondary level, social emotional support systems need to be determined for staff and students. As a result of training, incidences of office discipline referrals have decreased, and AUSD hopes to see continued improvements in students' perceptions of safety on campus.  AUSD has a three year plan to train all its schools in restorative practice. In the 2018-19 school year, three schools were trained, in 2019-20 all Elementary sites will be trained, and the remaining schools will be trained in 2020-21. AUSD has seen a reduction in suspensions and hopes to see continued improvements in students' perceptions of safety on campus. as a result of this ongoing work.  In addition to curriculum and training in social emotional learning and restorative practices, sites will receive anti-bias and related curriculum training from Facing History and Ourselves as a part of the three year plan.  In the 2019-2020 school year, the district will be engaging students and the community in the next LCAP process providing an opportunity to meaningfully engage students including different student groups in improvements moving forward including how to monitor students’ meaningful participation in school.|2019-06-25|Sites are also continuing their implementation of Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) including Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) and additional academic supports in an effort to increase the overall sense of safety, belonging, and success at schools.|Met|2019
01611270000000|Albany City Unified|6|During the 2017-2018 school year, the California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11. The following are key findings from the survey:  When asked about the extent to which students felt a part of the school, 84% of 5th graders reported feeling part of the school all or most of the time. 69% of 7th graders, 58% of 9th graders, and 47% of 11th graders strongly agreed or agreed that they felt like part of the school.  When asked about feeling close to people at the school, 61% of 5th graders indicated feeling close to people at school all or most of time, 69% of 7th graders, 67% of 9th graders, and 57% of 11th graders agreed or strongly agreed that they felt close to people at their school.  When asked about feeling safe at school, 92% of students in grade 5 indicated they feel safe all or most of the time. In grades 7, 9 and 11, 71% of students in grade 7, 63% of students in grade 9, and 60% of students in grade 11 strongly agreed or agreed with the statement that they feel safe at their school.  When student responses to feeling safe or very safe at school are were dis-aggregated by ethnicity and grade level, Asian students reported the highest rates of feeling safe or very safe at school. 78% of Asian students in grade 7 reported feeling safe or very safe at school compared to 76% in grade 9 and 76% in grade 11. Students identifying as Hispanic/Latino and two or more races reported the lowest overall rates of feeling safe or very safe at school. Among Hispanic/Latino students, 67% in grade 7, 60% in grade 9, and 55% in grade 11 reported feeling safe or very safe at school. Among students identifying as two or more races, 70% of 7th graders, 56% of 9th graders, and 57% of 11th graders reported feeling safe or very safe at school.  In general, the results from the California Healthy Kids Survey indicate that feelings of safety and school connectedness are highest in the elementary grades (5), and decline as students progress through middle grades (7), and high school (9 and 11).  Actions the District will take to respond to this data include implementing activities and strategies to increase feelings of school connectedness and safety. The District introduced social emotional learning and social justice competencies during the 2018-2019 school year, and the District is also exploring culturally responsive teaching as a vehicle for increasing student success and connectedness.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
37683386120935|Albert Einstein Academy Charter Elementary|6|In a survey given to 4th grade students, 87.6% of students feel safe at school, 8.6% felt safe some of the time and 3.8% reported not feeling safe at school. 75% of 4th grade students feel that the adults on campus care about them, 25% felt adults cared some of the time and there were no students who felt adults don't care about them.  The LEA will continue to reach out to ensure all students feel connected at school. AEA has initiated the implementation of the Responsive Classroom in grades K to 5 through Professional Development to foster a positive, supported climate in every classroom.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
37683380111898|Albert Einstein Academy Charter Middle|6|In a survey given to 6th grade students, 89% of students feel safe at school, 7.1% felt safe some of the time and 3.9% reported not feeling safe at school. 83.7% of 6th grade students have a connection with adults on campus, 8.4% said they somewhat disagree with having a connection with an adult and 7.8% reported not having a connection with an adult.  The LEA has a partnership with the San Diego County Office of Education to implement a three year MTSS initiative to ensure we have systems and practices in place to meet the needs of every student at their level.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
12630320111203|Alder Grove Charter School 2|6|School Climate – Student Survey (18-19)* I am proud to be a student at Alder Grove.     Agree 53.3  Strongly Agree 46.7 When I am on campus, students are treated fairly.    Unsure 20  Agree 33.3  Strongly Agree 46.7 I feel safe when I am on campus.    Agree 33.3  Strongly Agree 66.7 When I am on campus, adults treat with me respect.    Unsure 6.7  Agree 53.3  Strongly Agree 40  School Climate – Parent Survey (18-19) AGCS teachers inform me about my child’s academic progress.    Agree 26.7  Strongly Agree 73.3 AGCS staff provide me with information that I can understand.    Agree 20  Strongly Agree 80 I am aware of ways to give input at AGCS (Governance Council, Leadership Team, etc.).     Agree 23.1  Strongly Agree 76.9  School Climate – Staff Survey (18-19) My colleagues and I work together to improve the school.    Agree 39.3  Strongly Agree 60.7 AGCS personalizes academic expectations and sets attainable goals for student success.    Disagree 3.6  Unsure 3.6  Agree 46.4  Strongly Agree 46.4|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49705990000000|Alexander Valley Union Elementary|6|In 2019, Alexander Valley School implemented a school climate student survey for students in grades 3-5 with an emphasis on Mindfulness. Key learnings included student scores increasing per their pre to post-survey on using mindfulness strategies being helpful at school when trying to respond vs. react.   Data meaning showed the staff on campus that students are using mindfulness strategies at home and during times where students need to "reset". Some of the key challenges include identifying ways students can work collaboratively in honest conversations around circle time or classroom meetings. Our use includes additional training that will be provided for staff during the 2019-2020 school year to help foster successful circle meeting sessions in and outside of the classrooms. We anticipate seeing a further extension of students building positive sustainable relationships with their peers resulting in less conflict.|2019-08-15||Met|2019
19647336061543|Alfred B. Nobel Charter Middle|6|The students of Nobel Charter Middle School participated in the LAUSD 2018-2019 School Experience Survey. 92% of students completed the survey. The following are the survey responses that pertain to school climate: 1. The percentage of students who reported feeling safe at school was 70%. 2. The percentage of students who reported that they are happy at school was 81% 3. The percentage of students who reported that they feel like they are a part of the school was 71%, which is a 1% increase from the 2017 – 2018 school year. 4. The percentage of students who feel accepted for who they are at school is 76%, which is a 1% increase from the 2017 – 2018 school year.  These responses revealed through 70% or more agreement of statements 1 – 4 indicates that students feel safe and connected to the school. To continue to improve in this area, we have instituted a bullying prevention program in 6th grade and teachers will receive training for the program 2nd step this school year.  Our safety and discipline committee, culture and climate committee and student leadership continue to create ways for students to feel safe and connected to the school community.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
19757130000000|Alhambra Unified|6|The schools in the Alhambra Unified School District are characterized by a positive and safe school climate for students, parents, faculty and staff.  The Student Employee Welfare Division and Gateway To Success, a nationally recognized program for its approach to school climate and mental health, have worked diligently to develop, implement and facilitate research-based and data driven approaches that impact student and family engagement in the learning environment at all school sites.  The Alhambra Unified School District School Climate Survey is facilitated annually in partnership with school research consultants from UCLA.  The researchers also work with the Fuller Theological Seminary Thrive Center who have supported the District is the development of a Mindfulness Program to support students in handling their anxiety and stress.  Participants of the School Climate Survey representing the AUSD student body were randomly selected to complete and submit the annual survey.  According to the data collected in the 2018-2019 school year, participants indicated that our schools are a “safe place to be” and that students “can count on the adults in the school to make sure they are safe.” The survey measured a sense of agency and results strongly indicate that schools in the District provided ways for families to be involved, that students and families felt welcomed at all sites, and that students felt like they belonged at school and were well informed of the school rules and behavioral boundaries.  Survey results also indicated that students like their school, that people in school treat each other with respect, and that school campuses are positive, warm and caring places where students can talk about their feelings.  The Student Employee Welfare Division / Gateway To Success train staff regularly and implement a comprehensive calendar each semester for a variety of staff groups. Topics include suicide assessment and prevention, positive student mental health, school attendance, the dangers of drug use and vaping, PBIS (student discipline), student investigation protocol, and special populations (foster/probation and homeless youth), comprehensive safe school planning, and canine alerts to name a few.  Communication and access are key to the success of positive school climate.  All faculty and staff have access to the Gateway To Success website for a plethora of resources which include: •    Online referral system and consent forms for mental health services •    Resource guides •    Home visit requests •    Parent engagement referrals •    Flyers for courses like the Parent Project and Saturday School •    Important documents for Section 504 Meeting requests the Medical Release of Information Request|2019-10-29|The online referral system has expedited the link to services for students and families through the website.  Students who are identified Foster Youth, supported by Probation, or protected by McKinney-Vento have direct access to resources through two counselors who specialize in the services and resources for those identified groups. All sites have a Gateway to Success Counselor or Intervention Advisor to meet the specific mental health needs of students and their families and to monitor attendance protocol to keep all students engaged and at school. Student discipline is marked with a system that builds a student’s skillset to productively navigate the academic and social emotional landscape of school and is administered from a clinical approach of care.  Punitive consequences are only assigned after all levels of intervention have been exhausted, including a change of placement.|Met|2019
44697996049829|Alianza Charter|6|Students at Alianza were surveyed in October 2018 about their perceptions of their school in terms of Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration, and Culture. In addition, students provided feedback about School Safety and Student Motivation. These results are detailed later in the report.  On an absolute basis, Alianza students provided the highest ratings on Academic Rigor and Relationships, while the lowest rated topics were Culture and Belonging & Peer Collaboration.   In order to put student feedback into context, this report compares Alianza students' ratings to the ratings from students at 261 other middle schools across the country.  On a relative basis, Alianza students gave more favorable feedback on:  Engagement Academic Rigor Relationships Belonging & Peer Collaboration Culture This report represents feedback from 177 students. Based on the enrollment data provided, your school had a 65% response rate. From the results of our survey as a school we have begun to explore the possibilities of implementing PBIS.  We would like to transition from our current Positive Discipline Program to PBIS which provides the framework to improve our school climate and culture.  We would like to specially focus on improving our school culture into a safe culture of high expectations and high student achievement.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
27659610000000|Alisal Union|6|The Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP) documented student and parent perceptions regarding school climate and safety as follows: -Parent Survey: 97% reported their school as a welcoming place, and 92% reported it as a safe place. Student Survey: 86% reported feeling safe at school always/most of the time. ALL sites implemented PBIS practices, and tracked discipline using SWIS. ALL sites implemented Sticks and Stones and Behavioral Health Counseling Serving 400+ students. ALL sites participated on the District's sports program, with 2,000+ students enrolled in seasonal teams throughout the year, and 2,335+ students participated in the District's music program including Yosal, Drumline, Mariachi, and Folklorico. In addition, 1,500+ students participated in the Saturday STEM program, and 7,394 participated in Super Saturday.|2019-08-14|The Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP) documented student and parent perceptions regarding school climate and safety as follows: -Parent Survey: 97% reported their school as a welcoming place, and 92% reported it as a safe place. Student Survey: 86% reported feeling safe at school always/most of the time. ALL sites implemented PBIS practices, and tracked discipline using SWIS. ALL sites implemented Sticks and Stones and Behavioral Health Counseling Serving 400+ students. ALL sites participated on the District's sports program, with 2,000+ students enrolled in seasonal teams throughout the year, and 2,335+ students participated in the District's music program including Yosal, Drumline, Mariachi, and Folklorico. In addition, 1,500+ students participated in the Saturday STEM program, and 7,394 participated in Super Saturday.|Met|2019
37754166119275|All Tribes Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
37754160122796|All Tribes Elementary Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
36676780137547|Allegiance STEAM Academy - Thrive|6|Allegiance administered a school climate across all grades.  DATA: The key learnings include that ASA is overwhelmingly seen by stakeholders as a safe and welcoming environment with accessible and professional staff.  MEANING: Disaggregated results indicate that across age spans and subgroups, Allegiance is seen as a safe and welcoming environment. Concerns about potential (as opposed to actual) bullying are concentrated in 2 primary grade levels and is not prevalent school-wide. Areas of strength include the connections and relationships within the community. An area of growth is in the area of communicating student progress. Mastery based learning and Standards-based grading present challenges as a significant number of parents would benefit from support and clarification on these tenets of our charter. USE: Actions to be taken is to further support teachers and all staff in building trusting relationships with students.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
54717950000000|Allensworth Elementary|6|We are in the initial stages of developing bench marks to identify student academic needs and implement academic curriculum programs to ensure success.|2019-10-31|We continue to improve school culture to provide a safe educational, that promotes mutual respect and develops a  high caliber of programs both in and outside the classroom to ensure student success|Met|2019
19647330127217|Alliance Alice M. Baxter College-Ready High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.9. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.1. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.0 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.2 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Alice M. Baxter College-Ready High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.0), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.1), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.2).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Alice M. Baxter College-Ready High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the Student Satisfaction Survey, Baxter received an overall average response of 3. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Baxter, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330121285|Alliance Cindy and Bill Simon Technology Academy High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.3 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.5 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Cindy and Bill Simon Technology Academy High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Cindy and Bill Simon Technology Academy High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Simon Tech received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Simon Tech, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330128058|Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 12|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.4. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.5. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.5 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.6 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 12, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.6), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.6), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.7).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 12 is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, ACRMA 12 received an overall average response of 3.4. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At ACRMA 12, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330120030|Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 4|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.3. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.5 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 4, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.5), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.5), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.5).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 4 is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, ACRMA 4 received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At ACRMA 4, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330120048|Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 5|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.9. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.1. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.1 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 5, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.2), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.0), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.1), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.2).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 5 is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, ACRMA 5 received an overall average response of 3.1. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At ACRMA 5, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330128033|Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 8|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.1. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.2 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 8, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.2), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance College-Ready Middle Academy 8 is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, ACRMA 8 received an overall average response of 3.1. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At ACRMA 8, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330108936|Alliance Collins Family College-Ready High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.7. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 2.9. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.1 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Collins Family College-Ready High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (2.9), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.1), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.1).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Collins Family College-Ready High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Collins received an overall average response of 3.0. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Collins, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330111500|Alliance Dr. Olga Mohan High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.7. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 2.9. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.1 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.1 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Dr. Olga Mohan High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.2), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.1), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.2).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Dr. Olga Mohan High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Mohan received an overall average response of 3.0. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Mohan, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330106864|Alliance Gertz-Ressler Richard Merkin 6-12 Complex|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.3 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.4 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Gertz-Ressler Richard Merkin 6-12 Complex, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.4).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Gertz-Ressler Richard Merkin 6-12 Complex is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Gertz-Merkin received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Gertz-Merkin, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330111518|Alliance Jack H. Skirball Middle|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.8. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 2.9. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.1 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.0 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Jack H. Skirball Middle School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.1), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.2), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.2).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Jack H. Skirball Middle School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Skirball received an overall average response of 3.0. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Skirball, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330108894|Alliance Judy Ivie Burton Technology Academy High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.9. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.0. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.0 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.2 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Judy Ivie Burton Technology Academy High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.1), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.2), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.2), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.2).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Judy Ivie Burton Technology Academy High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Burton Tech received an overall average response of 3.0. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Burton Tech, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330128041|Alliance Kory Hunter Middle|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.2. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.4. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.4 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.7 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Kory Hunter Middle School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).||In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Kory Hunter Middle School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Hunter received an overall average response of 3.3. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Hunter, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330117606|Alliance Leichtman-Levine Family Foundation Environmental Science High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.9. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 2.9. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.0 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Leichtman-Levine Family Foundation Environmental Science High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.1), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.2), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.2), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.1).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Leichtman-Levine Family Foundation Environmental Science High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Levine received an overall average response of 2.9. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Levine, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330111658|Alliance Marc & Eva Stern Math and Science|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.3. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.3. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.2 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.5 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Marc and Eva Stern Math and Science School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.5), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.4).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Marc and Eva Stern Math and Science School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Stern MASS received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Stern MASS, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330124941|Alliance Margaret M. Bloomfield Technology Academy High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.0. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.3 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.2 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Margaret M. Bloomfield Technology Academy High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.4).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Margaret M. Bloomfield Technology Academy High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Bloomfield received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Bloomfield, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330132084|Alliance Marine - Innovation and Technology 6-12 Complex|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.0. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.3 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.6 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Marine - Innovation and Technology 6-12 Complex, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Marine - Innovation and Technology 6-12 Complex is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Marine Complex received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Marine Complex, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330116509|Alliance Morgan McKinzie High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.8. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 2.9. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 2.9 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 2.8 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Morgan McKinzie High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (2.9), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.1), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Morgan McKinzie High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, McKinzie received an overall average response of 2.9. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At McKinzie, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330111641|Alliance Ouchi-O'Donovan 6-12 Complex|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.9. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.2 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Ouchi-O'Donovan 6-12 Complex, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.2), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Ouchi-O'Donovan 6-12 Complex is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Ouchi-O'Donovan received an overall average response of 3.1. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Ouchi-O'Donovan, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330111492|Alliance Patti And Peter Neuwirth Leadership Academy|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.3 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.1 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Patti & Peter Neuwirth Leadership Academy, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.3), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Patti & Peter Neuwirth Leadership Academy is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Neuwirth received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Neuwirth, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330117598|Alliance Piera Barbaglia Shaheen Health Services Academy|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.7. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 2.9. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 2.8 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Piera Barbaglia Shaheen Health Services Academy, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.1), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.2), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.1).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Piera Barbaglia Shaheen Health Services Academy is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, PBS HSA received an overall average response of 2.9. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At PBS HSA, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330124891|Alliance Renee and Meyer Luskin Academy High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 2.8. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.0. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.1 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.1 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Renee & Meyer Luskin Academy High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.0), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.1), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.2), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.2).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Renee & Meyer Luskin Academy High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Luskin received an overall average response of 3.0. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Luskin, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330123133|Alliance Susan and Eric Smidt Technology High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.2. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.2 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.4 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Susan and Eric Smidt Technology High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.4), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.4), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.4).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Susan and Eric Smidt Technology High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Smidt Tech received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Smidt Tech, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330123141|Alliance Ted K. Tajima High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.1. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.2 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Ted K. Tajima High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Ted K. Tajima High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Tajima received an overall average response of 3.1. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Tajima, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330121293|Alliance Tennenbaum Family Technology High|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.0. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.1. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.1 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.3 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Tennenbaum Family Technology High School, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.3), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.3).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Tennenbaum Family Technology High School is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Tennenbaum received an overall average response of 3.1. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Tennenbaum, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19647330128009|Alliance Virgil Roberts Leadership Academy|6|The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) helps us gather unfiltered student feedback to assess whether we foster a safe school environment. Our survey question regarding whether the student feels safe at school yielded an average response of 3.1. Additionally, our survey question regarding whether the school emphasizes respect for others yielded a result of 3.2. The Student Satisfaction Survey also helps us determine whether we effectively promote our students’ sense of belonging and connectedness to the school. For example, students provided an average response of 3.2 when asked if the teachers show respect for all students and an average response of 3.4 when asked if the principal shows respect for all students. Furthermore, at Alliance Virgil Roberts Leadership Academy, we believe that students thrive not only when they develop close relationships with teachers and all adults in the building, but also when we set high expectations for students. Students respective average responses to the following survey questions are indicated in parentheses after each question: (a) I believe that this school is preparing me to be successful in college (3.5), (b) This school does a good job of informing students about options for college (3.3), (c) This school emphasizes the benefits of attending college (3.4), and (d) This school emphasizes the benefits of graduating from college (3.4).|2020-01-23|In categories of overall student satisfaction, the results of The Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Student Satisfaction Survey (the “Student Satisfaction Survey”) indicate that students believe Alliance Virgil Roberts Leadership Academy is meeting its goals for a safe and inclusive school climate. In the survey, Roberts received an overall average response of 3.2. And while we are happy with the score, we will continue to prioritize the safety and well-being of our students. At Roberts, we believe that student voices are instrumental in creating excellent educational environments. We view students as collaborators. At its core, the Student Satisfaction Survey is designed to give us the data we need to engage students more effectively so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We will continue to use this data to advance our understanding regarding students’ views of our school and ultimately help to improve learning environments for all students. A copy of the Student Satisfaction Survey is available upon request. The Student Satisfaction Survey was developed by Alliance College-Ready Public Schools Research and Data Team to help schools develop goals to improve services and support provided to students. It is designed to measure student perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as perceptions of school climate and their own preparedness for college, and measures performance on a 1 to 4 scale with 4 being the highest rating.|Met|2019
19101990135368|Alma Fuerte Public|6|Alma Fuerte employs a number of strategies and support to support a positive school climate.  These efforts include: • Teachers implementing classroom management in accordance with the Social-Emotional Learning component described in the charter. • Implementing the Student Success Team (SST) as appropriate. • Teachers and staff employing restorative justice practices inside and outside of the classroom. • Provide translation services as needed to foster family involvement and connectedness • Administering a survey for families last school year to measure safety, climate and connectedness measures As a result of the survey, we implemented changes to home-school communications and we have increased the security of our  campus.    We carefully track behavior-related incidents to measure the success of our restorative justice and social-emotional learning practices.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
40688250125807|Almond Acres Charter Academy|6|1. Data: With our new MTSS implementation, the survey demonstrates students are aware of and see the positive behavioral expectations and their impact.  Students surveyed overwhelmingly agreed that the school climate is positive and supportive.  They feel they are respected by their teachers.  The elementary students surveyed also shared that a fair portion of them feel as though other students' behavior can impede the teacher's ability to teach. 2. Meaning: Overall, the climate is positive and productive.  However we have a challenge in our middle elementary grades around proactive classroom management and enforcing behavioral expectations. 3. Use: The school has implemented multiple structures to support student behavior and positive social emotional outcomes.  Interventions such as counseling, Check In Check Out, and mentorships have been implemented to assist with students who have struggles.  These interventions are instructional in nature and therefore provide support for those student who need to learn alternative ways to manage their behavior.  Additionally, professional development has been provided in the area of proactive classroom management.  Best practices are routinely shared at staff meetings.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
54718030000000|Alpaugh Unified|6|Alpaugh administers two surveys related to school climate and student engagement. The first is a local survey of staff, parents and students that emphasizes local concerns and is geared toward multiple grade levels. The second is the California Healthy Kids Survey, last administered in 2018-19 academic year. Both surveys confirm, that our school culture is positive and welcoming for students, staff, and parents. The school community feels Alpaugh is a safe school where learning processes are not interrupted by outside influences or discipline issues. Alpaugh has a fair discipline policy, which is clearly understood and supported by staff, students, and parents; we have had few student suspensions and no student expulsions, a clear indication of a positive school climate. Student engagement is a crucial component for student success.  Alpaugh’s desire is to involve students as active participants in their education by providing them with more learning opportunities and cross-curricular activities. The number of students participating in co-curricular activities such as Poetry and Prose, Science Fair, Spelling Bee and similar events has increased, confirming that students are  more engaged in academic life.  Results of the 2018-2019 California Healthy Kids Survey results continue to confirm that students believe that school is a safe place to be and feel strongly supportive of School supports, caring adults at school, high expectations of adults at the school, and school connectedness.  Alpaugh’s goal is that every student reports a high degree of satisfaction with each of these factors. AUSD is addressing this through on-campus intervention, schoolwide teacher training, literacy and academic support, and field trip experiences that connect classroom experiences to real-world applications and experiences.  Alpaugh will participate in the next administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey in 2020-2021.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
34673220127860|Alpha Charter|6|Alpha Charter has chosen to survey students, parents and stakeholders in a manner related to the goals established in the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) in the Local Control and Accountability Plan. Surveys indicate an overall satisfaction with the school climate. The district has implemented many changes since 2012. The Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) program was begun district-wide in 2011. Full implementation of PBIS was realized in 2015. Disciplinary referrals and suspensions have been reduced in each succeeding school year, and there have been zero expulsions from school. There is an annual review and revision of School Safety Plan. The district has markedly increased student supervision at all grade levels before, during, and after school. Security features, including security cameras, at Alpha Middle School, Alpha Charter High School were upgraded in 2016-2017. The district contracts with the Twin Rivers Police Department to provide school resource officers. An MOU and partnership was developed with a neighboring school district for School Attendance and Review Board (SARB) services in 2012. Additionally, an MOU for transportation services, with goal of decreasing absenteeism, was developed with a neighboring school district and implemented in 2012. Further, other initiatives resulted from student and stakeholder input. A new website went online at the beginning of the 2016-2017 school year. The district has expanded the enrichment opportunities at all grade levels, including an expanded music and drama program. The magnet programs at Alpha Middle School and Alpha Charter High School have resulted in an expansion of programs such as the Jerry Manuel Foundation baseball program, California Comets fast-pitch softball, Alpha Garden Arts, a mobile music studio, and visits from distinguished guests such as Dr. Cornel West, documented Tuskegee Airmen and their families, and various community leaders. It is the goal of the Alpha Charter School to actively seek student, parent, and stakeholder input on a continuous basis. As such, the district has an ongoing commitment to survey students, parents and stakeholders in a manner related to the goals established in the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) in the Local Control and Accountability Plan. This input has, and will continue to, drive the goals and initiatives of the district.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
43694270132274|Alpha Cindy Avitia High|6|At CAHS, we identified the following trends based on student responses: * Students feel physically and emotionally safe at our school (an average score of "3.04" or higher at each survey administration on our "Safe" sub-category questions, ending with a "3.24" in our final administration) * Students also feel a sense of belonging and personal connection at our school (an average score of "3.13" or higher at each administration in our "Belonging" sub-category questions, ending with a "3.35" in our final administration) * Areas of improvement are in the sub-categories of "Voice/Choice" and "Competence" - more specifically around a need to be praised/recognized for positive contributions more regularly and feeling more comfortable disagreeing with teaching staff (scores averaging ~ 2.67 - 2.8 in both categories at the beginning of the year).   Although students feel that school culture systems are fair and clear and that our staff care about them, as individuals, we have not been providing enough personal acknowledgment and recognition to all students at that same individual level to help students feel a sense of progress and consistent success.  Our students are also not as comfortable appropriately engaging in two-way discussion with teaching staff as we would like.    In response to our student culture survey data, staff increased their focus on increased levels of positive narration and precise praise in classrooms (based on problem-solving during instructional PD time).  Teaching staff also worked to improve consistency in implementation of schoolwide incentive systems to increase concrete moments of appreciation for individual students.  As a result of this focus, our "competence" scores improved to an average of "3.0" by the end of the school year.  Our "Voice/Choice" scores also improved - to a "3.06" by the end of the school year.     As a network, we are focusing on specific "Adaptive Leadership" skills support this year as a means to begin addressing our lower scores in the "Voice/Choice" domain.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
43693690125526|Alpha: Blanca Alvarado|6|At Blanca, we identified the following trends based on student responses: * Students feel physically and emotionally safe (an average score of "3.09" or higher at each survey administration on our "Safe" sub-category questions) * Students also feel a sense of belonging and personal connection to our school (an average score of "3.25" or higher at each survey implementation in our "Belonging" sub-category questions) * Areas of improvement are in the sub-categories of "Voice/Choice" and "Competence" - more specifically around a need to be praised/recognized for positive contributions more regularly and feeling more comfortable disagreeing with teaching staff (scores averaging ~ 2.9  in both categories at the beginning of the school year).   Although students feel that school culture systems are fair and clear and that our staff care about them, as individuals, we have not been providing enough personal acknowledgment and recognition to all students at that same individual level to help students feel a sense of progress and consistent success.  Our students are also not as comfortable appropriately engaging in two-way discussion with teaching staff as we would like.    In response to our student culture survey data, staff increased their focus on increased levels of positive narration and precise praise in classrooms (based on problem-solving during instructional PD time).  Teaching staff also worked to improve consistency in implementation of schoolwide incentive systems to increase concrete moments of appreciation for individual students.  As a result of this focus, our "competence" scores improved to a "3.05" average by the end of the school year.  As a network, we are focusing on specific "Adaptive Leadership" skills support this year as a means to begin addressing our lower scores in the "Voice/Choice" domain.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
43694500121483|Alpha: Cornerstone Academy Preparatory|6|At Cornerstone, we identified the following trends based on student responses: * Students feel physically and emotionally safe at our school (an average score of "3.11" or higher at each administration on our "Safe" sub-category questions) * Students also feel a sense of belonging and personal connection at our school (an average score of "3.26" or higher at each administration in our "Belonging" sub-category questions) * Areas of improvement are in the sub-categories of "Voice/Choice" and "Competence" in grades 5-8 - more specifically around a need to be praised/recognized for positive contributions more regularly and feeling more comfortable disagreeing with teaching staff (scores averaging ~ 2.6 in both categories).   Although students feel that school culture systems are fair and clear and that our staff care about them, as individuals, we have not been providing enough personal acknowledgment and recognition to all students at that same individual level to help students feel a sense of progress and consistent success.  Our students are also not as comfortable appropriately engaging in two-way discussion with teaching staff as we would like.    In response to our student culture survey data, staff increased their focus on increased levels of positive narration and precise praise in classrooms (based on problem-solving during instructional PD time).  Teaching staff also worked to improve consistency in implementation of schoolwide incentive systems to increase concrete moments of appreciation for individual students.  In spite of this focus, we did not see culture scores improve in the way we would have expected, and are hoping to do deeper investigation this year to determine root causes and potential solutions.  As a network, we are focusing on specific "Adaptive Leadership" skills support this year as a means to begin addressing our lower scores in the "Voice/Choice" domain.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
43104390129213|Alpha: Jose Hernandez|6|At Jose Hernandez, we identified the following trends based on student responses: * Students feel physically and emotionally safe at our school (an average score of "3.03" at the beginning of the year on our "Safe" sub-category questions; improving to a "3.16" at the end of the year) * Students also feel a sense of belonging and personal connection at our school (an average score of "3.19" or at the beginning of the year in our "Belonging" sub-category questions; ending with a "3.22" at the end of the year) * Areas of improvement are in the sub-categories of "Voice/Choice" and "Competence" - more specifically around a need to be praised/recognized for positive contributions more regularly and feeling more comfortable disagreeing with teaching staff (scores averaging ~ 2.9 in both categories across schools at the beginning of the year).   Although students feel that school culture systems are fair and clear and that our staff care about them, as individuals, we have not been providing enough personal acknowledgment and recognition to all students at that same individual level to help students feel a sense of progress and consistent success.  Our students are also not as comfortable appropriately engaging in two-way discussion with teaching staff as we would like.    In response to our student culture survey data, staff increased their focus on increased levels of positive narration and precise praise in classrooms (based on problem-solving during instructional PD time).  Teaching staff also worked to improve consistency in implementation of schoolwide incentive systems to increase concrete moments of appreciation for individual students.  Our "competence" scores ended at a "2.98" average - which did not demonstrate the growth we would have expected by the end of the year.  However, our "Voice/Choice" scores improved to a "2.99" by the end of the year.  As a network, we are focusing on specific "Adaptive Leadership" skills support this year as a means to begin addressing our lower scores in the "Voice/Choice" domain.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
02100250000000|Alpine County Office of Education|6|Preliminary analysis of the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey results indicate that DVES students experience high academic motivation (88% ELEM, 73% SEC), high expectations from adults in school (88% ELEM, 83% SEC), and high parent involvement (72% ELEM) or caring adult relationships (80% SEC).    There are encouraging findings in the Social-Emotional domain.  Students report high or very high levels of belief in themselves (80% ELEM, 71% SEC), high levels of empathy (73% ELEM) and emotional competence (71% SEC), as well as high levels of growth mindset (80% ELEM, 88% SEC).  There is more room for growth in their sense of engaged living (47% ELEM, 67% SEC) and their perceived problem solving skills (60% ELEM, 50% SEC).  Students in both surveys rated school connectedness at about the same level – approximately 55% rated connectedness as high or very high (54% ELEM, 56% SEC).  However, the percentage that perceive school as a safe environment showed a wider divide, with elementary students feeling safer than middle school students (60% ELEM, 40% SEC).  And, while the surveys do not ask the same questions about bullying and harassment, this clearly remains an area for concern and action:  Elementary: • 50% report being hit or pushed at school • 80% report having mean rumors spread about them • 70% report being called bad names or the target of mean jokes • 10% report having seen a weapon at school  Secondary: • 40% report experiencing any harassment or bullying • 50% report having mean rumors spread about them • 50% report having been in a physical fight at school • 30% report having seen a weapon at school  Regarding substance use and mental health, 10% of both groups reported current alcohol or drug use.  While this percentage may not be representative due to the small sample size, there were significant percentage of secondary students who perceived high risk behaviors as having slight or no risk:  20% said five or more drinks once or twice a week carried slight or no risk, and 50% said daily marijuana use posed slight or no risk, and 50% said vaping several times a day (100 puffs or more) carried slight or no risk.|2019-10-08|Possible action to enhance school climate may focus on enhanced implementation of PBIS, with particular focus on student engagement, input and leadership.  Students’ strengths around belief in themselves and empathy/emotional competence, and growth mindset may be leveraged to enhance prevention efforts around alcohol, tobacco, marijuana and other drugs.|Met|2019
02613330000000|Alpine County Unified|6|Preliminary analysis of the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey results indicate that DVES students experience high academic motivation (88% ELEM, 73% SEC), high expectations from adults in school (88% ELEM, 83% SEC), and high parent involvement (72% ELEM) or caring adult relationships (80% SEC).    There are encouraging findings in the Social-Emotional domain.  Students report high or very high levels of belief in themselves (80% ELEM, 71% SEC), high levels of empathy (73% ELEM) and emotional competence (71% SEC), as well as high levels of growth mindset (80% ELEM, 88% SEC).  There is more room for growth in their sense of engaged living (47% ELEM, 67% SEC) and their perceived problem solving skills (60% ELEM, 50% SEC).  Students in both surveys rated school connectedness at about the same level – approximately 55% rated connectedness as high or very high (54% ELEM, 56% SEC).  However, the percentage that perceive school as a safe environment showed a wider divide, with elementary students feeling safer than middle school students (60% ELEM, 40% SEC).  And, while the surveys do not ask the same questions about bullying and harassment, this clearly remains an area for concern and action:  Elementary: • 50% report being hit or pushed at school • 80% report having mean rumors spread about them • 70% report being called bad names or the target of mean jokes • 10% report having seen a weapon at school  Secondary: • 40% report experiencing any harassment or bullying • 50% report having mean rumors spread about them • 50% report having been in a physical fight at school • 30% report having seen a weapon at school  Regarding substance use and mental health, 10% of both groups reported current alcohol or drug use.  While this percentage may not be representative due to the small sample size, there were significant percentage of secondary students who perceived high risk behaviors as having slight or no risk:  20% said five or more drinks once or twice a week carried slight or no risk, and 50% said daily marijuana use posed slight or no risk, and 50% said vaping several times a day (100 puffs or more) carried slight or no risk.|2019-10-08|Possible action to enhance school climate may focus on enhanced implementation of PBIS, with particular focus on student engagement, input and leadership.  Students’ strengths around belief in themselves and empathy/emotional competence, and growth mindset may be leveraged to enhance prevention efforts around alcohol, tobacco, marijuana and other drugs.|Met|2019
37679670000000|Alpine Union Elementary|6|Alpine Union administers the California Healthy Kids Survey, to students in 6–8 every other year. In our survey the percentage of students feeling safe at the middle school dropped to 44% of 7th graders and 65% of 5th graders. Students shared that the proliferation of social media made them feel unsafe as messages are shared instantly and they do not have the means to control them.  Additionally, the district hired a full-time social worker in support of meeting the needs of our students. The District is working closely with the sheriff's department and fire department to increase the safety and security measures at our schools including adding security fencing at the middle school.  Our goal is to implement these actions as well as others to help us to increase the percentage of students feeling safe and secure at school.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
36675950000000|Alta Loma Elementary|6|A District created survey was given to students in grades 3-8 and students self-identified participation in GATE, English Learners, Special Education, AVID, Title I programs, and grade level. The District analyzed 1878 student responses surrounding progress on the 8 state priorities with special emphasis on school safety and connectedness. 93.9% of students surveyed reported that their school provided a good education,that is standards-based (92%), and 85.7% were satisfied with the instruction received. Students acknowledged schools provide learning tools (94.8%) and provide access to technology. Student engagement responses indicated 54.1% of students like school "often" (sometimes 31.3%), feel they do well in school (74.7%), and recognize schools want them to do well (89.4%). Students reported schools have clear rules for behavior (93.7%), are treated with respect by teachers (90.5%), and recognized for doing the right thing (79.1%). 82.2% of students reported getting along with others, 84.3% felt safe at school, and 63.7% said peers treated them well. 84.8% identified an adult they could turn to if needed, and 54.2% reported students often behaved in class (38.9% sometimes). 88.5% agreed that schools offered connection activities and 90.9% said that school is supportive and inviting. When asked what schools can do to help them be successful, students responded; after school help, tutoring and additional math support. In regards to peer relationships (63.7%) have the need for additional social and emotion support continues to be an area to focus on. In response to academic and emotional needs, the District continues to support each school site with STATS (Student Additional Time and Support) funds for after school programs, and this year added funding for further academic support for any student who scored "does not meet" on the state test in language arts and/or math.  The District continues to double the amount of Tier 2 and Tier 3 counselors and added counseling interns. PBIS is District-wide, and we have implemented the Second Step social/emotional curriculum at each school focused on learning skills, empathy, emotion management, problem solving, as well as a bully prevention component. Lesson links are sent home each week to reinforce skills.  The focus area to address is that students want to feel they are treated well by their peers. Beyond the addition of counseling interns this year to provide more social and emotional support at each site, site and district administrators are participating in a series of Cultural Proficiency and Equity Trainings so that they, along with their staff, can continue to enhance the climate at their schools.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
31667870126664|Alta Vista Community Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
54718110000000|Alta Vista Elementary|6|The Alta Vista Elementary School District utilizes the California Healthy Kids Survey as an important school climate indicator to assess the climate for learning at our school. Although the survey had mixed responses, our analysis yields two conclusions that must continue to be addressed in a schoolwide approach to include professional development for staff as well as programs and services for students. First, the overwhelming response is “moderate” to “high” with a small number and percentage of students reporting “low”. The survey looks at student responses to questions about: • School supports • Caring adults at school • High expectations of adults at the school • School connectedness • Parent involvement at the school, and • Academic motivation.  Our goal is that every student reports a high degree of satisfaction with each of these factors. One of the ways we are addressing this is through on-campus intervention and support with schoolwide teacher training and a teacher assigned to coordinate services for students. Another way we are addressing this is through schoolwide approaches to student literacy and academic support. An approach that is showing substantive increase in student connectedness is co-curricular instructional field trip experiences that connect classroom experiences to real-world applications and experiences. Second, although responses averaged in the “yes, most or all of the time”, a significant percentage of students continue to respond in the negative on multiple factors. We are addressing this through greatly expanded professional supports for student personal and academic growth through contracts with the county office for professional services such as nursing, counseling, behavior intervention, and professional development for our staff.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
36750510136432|Alta Vista Innovation High|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  98% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  90% reported that they felt connected to the school *  95% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
31667790000000|Alta-Dutch Flat Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
01611190130625|Alternatives in Action|6||||Not Met|2019
43693690000000|Alum Rock Union Elementary|6|Alum Rock Union School District is committed to providing all students and families a safe, welcoming and caring environment conducive to learning.   Several Alum Rock schools have been engaged in implementation of Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) as well as Restorative Justice with the goal of reducing incidents and disciplinary actions while working to increase the socio-emotional support at elementary sites.  ARUSD experienced a decrease in suspensions by 53.87% for the 2018/19 school year with zero expulsions. These positive results have supported our decision to increase the number of school sites receiving training and support in the Restorative Justice Model.  In addition, more training is planned for alternative methods to suspension for all school administrators.  Students and parents have also been surveyed using a survey with specific questions on school climate.  Survey responses indicated that 89% of parents believe our schools are safe and 94% of parents believe that their child feels welcomed by school staff.   Survey responses for students indicated that 63% of students at the Elementary School level believe our schools are safe; 58% at the Middle School level.  72% of Elementary School students and 60% of middle school level indicated a “sense of belonging” ( School connectedness).  A total of 73% at the Elementary School level and 76% for Middle School level rate their school as “feeling that there is a climate of support for academic learning””.  At the elementary school level, 78% of students and 70% for middle school level indicated “Knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules and norms”.  In an effort to improve student connectedness and student safety, our Student Services department is working with schools to develop positive behavior strategies and incentives.  Schools also have access to a variety of teacher, student, and parent workshops that support student safety and school connectedness.   We continue to seek opportunities to provide counseling support to identified students in need at all grade levels as a way to address school safety concerns in relation to socio-emotional issues.  Additional responses to key survey questions can be found on pg. 42 of the annual review for safe and welcoming schools under goal 3 at:|2019-10-15||Met|2019
20651770000000|Alview-Dairyland Union Elementary|6|The district administered a school climate survey for students in May of 2019.  The survey information was used to glean data on students’ perceptions of how the school is meeting their academic needs, connectedness, safety, cleanliness, caring staff, and motivation to learn.  The survey solicited responses from students in grades six through eight.  The results indicate that students feel strongly that their academic needs are being met in all subject areas.  Reading, Language Arts, and Spelling had an 89% favorable rating.  Math had an 86% favorable rating.  Science, STEM, and Social Studies had an 82% favorable rating.  80% of students responded favorably to caring staff relationships and 87% indicated their teachers motivate them to learn.  81% of students indicated they are well-informed of academic progress, school rules and policies.  87% of students feel welcome and 80% feel safe at school.  76% of students provided a positive response to questions about school cleanliness and maintenance.  Due to the small student populations, responses were not broken down into student group data.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
10619940000000|Alvina Elementary|6|The Alvina Elementary Charter School Student Survey was given to all students in grades 4 and 8 during the 2019-2020 school year. This survey was designed by administration to assist AECS staff and parents in developing an understanding of the student experience at Alvina Elementary Charter School. Many of the questions were reflective of the questions found on the California Healthy Kids Survey. Questions on this survey were focused on student connectedness, school safety, student support and student involvement. Questions designed to focus on school connectedness, such as “Do you feel like you are a part of this school?” and “Are you happy to be at Alvina School?” resulted in very high results. 92% of students in grades 4 and 97% of students in grade 8 indicated they feel they are part of the school and are happy to be at Alvina. These questions were consistent among all subgroups.   Questions designed to focus on school safety, such as “Do you feel safe at this school?” and “Have you seen anyone bring a dangerous object to school?” also resulted in very high results. 96% of students in grades 4 and 100% of students in grade 8 indicated they feel safe at school and know how to ask for help if needed. Also, 100% of students in both grades 4 and 8 indicate they have not seen any dangerous objects at school. These results were consistent among all subgroups.  Lastly, questions designed to focus on student support and involvement, such as “Do teachers and other adults believe you can do a good job and help you when needed?” and “Do teachers and other adults give you a chance to help solve school problems?” resulted in the following results. 92% of students in grades 4 and 97% of students in grade 8 indicated teachers and other adults believe in them and provide support. Also, 74% of students in grade 4 and 88% of students in grade 8 feel they are involved in helping solve school problems. This percentage identifies a continued area of focus in increasing student involvement. These results were consistent among all subgroups. The district in their continued work with parents and students, will set a target of increasing or maintaining percentages at or above 90% among all subgroups.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
10619946005730|Alvina Elementary Charter|6|The Alvina Elementary Charter School Student Survey was given to all students in grades 4 and 8 during the 2019-2020 school year. This survey was designed by administration to assist AECS staff and parents in developing an understanding of the student experience at Alvina Elementary Charter School. Many of the questions were reflective of the questions found on the California Healthy Kids Survey. Questions on this survey were focused on student connectedness, school safety, student support and student involvement. Questions designed to focus on school connectedness, such as “Do you feel like you are a part of this school?” and “Are you happy to be at Alvina School?” resulted in very high results. 92% of students in grades 4 and 97% of students in grade 8 indicated they feel they are part of the school and are happy to be at Alvina. These questions were consistent among all subgroups.   Questions designed to focus on school safety, such as “Do you feel safe at this school?” and “Have you seen anyone bring a dangerous object to school?” also resulted in very high results. 96% of students in grades 4 and 100% of students in grade 8 indicated they feel safe at school and know how to ask for help if needed. Also, 100% of students in both grades 4 and 8 indicate they have not seen any dangerous objects at school. These results were consistent among all subgroups.  Lastly, questions designed to focus on student support and involvement, such as “Do teachers and other adults believe you can do a good job and help you when needed?” and “Do teachers and other adults give you a chance to help solve school problems?” resulted in the following results. 92% of students in grades 4 and 97% of students in grade 8 indicated teachers and other adults believe in them and provide support. Also, 74% of students in grade 4 and 88% of students in grade 8 feel they are involved in helping solve school problems. This percentage identifies a continued area of focus in increasing student involvement. These results were consistent among all subgroups. The district in their continued work with parents and students, will set a target of increasing or maintaining percentages at or above 90% among all subgroups.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
33669770000000|Alvord Unified|6|AUSD administers a school climate survey every two years to students in grades 5, 7, and 9; parents/guardians of all students, and all staff to identify the strengths and areas of opportunity to improve and enhance a safe and positive school culture at each school, district department, and surrounding communities.  The survey was administered in the Spring of 2019, data revealed the following: School engagement and Supports-Elementary students experience a higher level of support from caring adults (70%) and parent involvement (77%) at school than secondary students (caring adults 56% at 7th grade/55% at 9th grade and parent involvement 55% at 7th and 44% at 9th); School Safety-Students at the elementary level feel a higher level of safety (75%)  than 7th (59%) and 9th (59%) grade students; and Substance abuse and mental health-Substance abuse was reported at 17%(9th) and 6% (7th). Cigarette use at 1% (9th) and 1% (7th), while electronic cigarette use at 10%  (9th) and 4% (7th).   Data regarding experiences of chronic sadness or hopelessness were highest among 9th grade (35%), however, students in 7th grade (25%) and 5th grade (20%) had a degree of those experiences.The data indicate a need to further engage with our students to identify how we can increase the level of school engagement and supports at the elementary level and sustain that positive connection into secondary school environments.  Additionally, there is a need to analyze the safety parameters within the district to identify strategies to increase the level of safety that our students feel when at school and interacting with their peers.  While the supports within the district have increased the social-emotional resources that our students have access to, there is still a great concern that more of our students need to access the support available. Through engagement with our stakeholders and feedback from our parent groups, it is evident that our students come with a multitude of social-emotional needs that necessitate additional resources and support in order to improve their focus on achievement.  As a result of the data and the district’s desire to be responsive to the needs of our students, families, staff, and community, it was determined that the California Healthy Kids survey would be administered on an annual basis, beginning in the Spring of 2020.  This will provide insights into the current needs of all stakeholders focused on creating engaging learning environments, where students feel safe and supported to achieve academically and positively develop their social-emotional well-being.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
03100330000000|Amador County Office of Education|6|We administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5,7,9, and 11 in May 2019. High School Strengths: 70% of our students feel that adults set  high expectations for them, and 70% report that they are academically motivated.  Additionally, only 6% were chronically truant. Middle School Strengths: Similar to the High School 72% of our 7th graders reported that adults set high expectations for them, and 63% said they were academically motivated. Only 2% of the 7th graders reported that they had smoked cigarettes, while only 4% were chronically truant. Elementary School: 82% of our elementary students feel they are treated with respect, feel safe at school, and feel that adults have high expectations of them in school. Additionally, 83% of our 5th grade students say they are academically motivated, while only 1% reported that they have smoked cigarettes. Opportunities for Improvement: It is noted that only 24% of 9th graders and 30% of 11th graders felt that they were given opportunities for meaningful participation in their classes.  Sadly, 46% of 9th graders and 38% of 11th graders reported experiencing chronic sadness/hopelessness, and over 20% of high school students stated that they had considered suicide at some point in their lives. Middle School: Once again the middle school numbers were strikingly similar to the high school with only 25% of 7th graders reporting that they had opportunities for meaningful participation in their schools. It is worrisome to see that 33% stated that they had experienced chronic sadness and hopelessness, while 17% said they had considered suicide. In our Elementary schools 41% of students said they have high levels of meaningful participation. Most concerning is that 46% of our 5th graders say they have been hit or pushed, and only 42% say students are well behaved. Another concern is that 20% report Alcohol or drug use and 21% say they have experienced sadness. Where do we go from here? Each school received a site-level report. Schools created plans to address the areas with opportunities for improvement. Strategies were put in place to try and change the data. Data cycles were established as many sites created a mini-survey that targeted their area of focus. Many sites have also begun using social-emotional curriculum to ensure all students have access to this learning in the general education classroom. At the secondary level, programs such as Where Everybody Belongs (WEB) and Safe & Civil Schools have been implemented to help students feel welcome and safe at school throughout their middle and high school years. We will re-administer the CHKS in March 2020 to measure progress on these goals. We are putting many resources and much effort into LCAP goal 2 around social-emotional wellness and school climate. While we wish for better results, we understand this is a process and it will take time for these efforts to produce the results we are looking for.|2019-11-06|Amador County Office of Education's commitment to a positive school climate is evidenced by the fact that the second of our two LCAP goals is directly related to this area. It reads, “By 2020, through multiple measures, all students will show an increase in positive school engagement and connectedness with staff, peers, and community, including demonstrating improvement in social/emotional and physical health.” Action 3 gets even more specific in this area. It reads “Further develop and strengthen welcoming, resourceful, safe and inclusive school climates at every school campus.” The steps we are taking to fulfill this goal and related actions include the hiring of additional school counselors, implementing social-emotional curriculum to ensure every student is exposed to this in the general education classroom, implementing alternatives to suspension such as Restorative Justice, providing professional development on the effects of trauma on children and strategies we can use for children who have experienced trauma, and professional development on understanding the mental health needs of students in our classrooms and strategies to assist in this area. We have also chosen to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey on an annual basis (instead of the required bi-annual basis) in an effort to measure our progress more frequently.|Met|2019
03739810000000|Amador County Unified|6|We administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5,7,9, and 11 in May 2019. High School Strengths: 70% of our students feel that adults set high expectations for them, and 70% report that they are academically motivated.  Additionally, only 6% were chronically truant. Middle School Strengths: Similar to the High School 72% of our 7th graders reported that adults set high expectations for them, and 63% said they were academically motivated. Only 2% of the 7th graders reported that they had smoked cigarettes, while only 4% were chronically truant. Elementary School: 82% of our elementary students feel they are treated with respect, feel safe at school, and feel that adults have high expectations of them in school. Additionally, 83% of our 5th grade students say they are academically motivated, while only 1% reported that they have smoked cigarettes. Opportunities for Improvement: It is noted that only 24% of 9th graders and 30% of 11th graders felt that they were given opportunities for meaningful participation in their classes.  Sadly, 46% of 9th graders and 38% of 11th graders reported experiencing chronic sadness/hopelessness, and over 20% of high school students stated that they had considered suicide at some point in their lives. Middle School: Once again the middle school numbers were strikingly similar to the high school with only 25% of 7th graders reporting that they had opportunities for meaningful participation in their schools. It is worrisome to see that 33% stated that they had experienced chronic sadness and hopelessness, while 17% said they had considered suicide. In our Elementary schools 41% of students said they have high levels of meaningful participation. Most concerning is that 46% of our 5th graders say they have been hit or pushed, and only 42% say students are well behaved. Another concern is that 20% report Alcohol or drug use and 21% say they have experienced sadness. Where do we go from here? Each school received a site-level report. Schools created plans to address the areas with opportunities for improvement. Strategies were put in place to try and change the data. Data cycles were established as many sites created a mini-survey that targeted their area of focus. Many sites have also begun using social-emotional curriculum to ensure all students have access to learning these skills in the general education classroom. At the secondary level, programs such as Where Everybody Belongs (WEB) and Safe & Civil Schools have been implemented to help students feel welcome and safe at school throughout their middle and high school years. We will re-administer the CHKS in March 2020 to measure progress on these goals. We are putting many resources and much effort into LCAP goal 2 around social-emotional wellness and school climate. While we wish for better results, we understand this is a process and it will take time for these efforts to produce the results we are looking for.|2019-11-06|Amador County Unified School District's commitment to a positive school climate is evidenced by the fact that the second of our two LCAP goals is directly related to this area. It reads, “By 2020, through multiple measures, all students will show an increase in positive school engagement and connectedness with staff, peers, and community, including demonstrating improvement in social/emotional and physical health.” Action 3 gets even more specific in this area. It reads “Further develop and strengthen welcoming, resourceful, safe and inclusive school climates at every school campus.” The steps we are taking to fulfill this goal and related actions include the hiring of additional school counselors, implementing social-emotional curriculum to ensure every student is exposed to this in the general education classroom, implementing alternatives to suspension such as Restorative Justice, providing professional development on the effects of trauma on children and strategies we can use for children who have experienced trauma, and professional development on understanding the mental health needs of students in our classrooms and strategies to assist in this area. We have also chosen to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey on an annual basis (instead of the required bi-annual basis) in an effort to measure our progress more frequently.|Met|2019
10623800136499|Ambassador Phillip V. Sanchez II Public Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  98% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  91% reported that they felt connected to the school *  91% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
01612596113807|American Indian Public Charter|6|We conducted annual surveys to receive results on the school climate.  The survey was given to K-8th students/families.  Below are the results for students and families.   Family Survey Results: 1) I feel that I have a voice in my childs education. 86% 2) This school encourages me to be an active partner with the school in educating my child. 86% 3) This school keeps me well-informed about school activities. 91% 4) At school my child is able to do his/her work without worrying about his/her physical or emotional safety. 91% 5) This school has a supportive learning environment for my child. 91%   Student Survey Results 1) At school I am able to do my work without worrying about my physical and or emotional safety. 81% 2) I feel I am part of this school. 73% 3) Teachers and other grown-ups at school care about me. 79%   The impression based on the survey results are that families and students are feeling supported academically and socio-emotionally, however these are some students that are not feeling this support.  We are affirming and supporting students positive behavior by rewarding them when Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (PBIS). We are enthusiastic with the responses from family and students in regards that students can do their work without worrying about their safety. Additionally, we excited to see that we are able to provide our students a healthy and inviting learning environments where they are protected from physical and emotional harm, this is essential to the mission of our schools. Based on these results we will continue to strive to reach 100% of our students feeling supported and AIPCS will continue to find strategies and programs to support these initiatives.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
01612590114363|American Indian Public Charter II|6|We conduct annual surveys to receive results on the school climate.  The survey is given to K-8th students/families.  Below are the results for students and families.  Family Survey Results: 1) I feel that I have a voice in my Childs education. 84% 2) This school encourages me to be an active partner with the school in educating my child. 76% 3) This school keeps me well-informed about school activities. 85% 4) At school my child is able to do his/her work without worrying about his/her physical or emotional safety. 85% 5) This school has a supportive learning environment for my child. 87%   Student Survey Results 1) At school I am able to do my work without worrying about my physical and or emotional safety. 86% 2) I feel I am part of this school. 86% 3) Teachers and other grown-ups at school care about me. 88%  The impression based on the survey results are that families and students are feeling supported academically and socio-emotionally.  We are affirming and supporting students positive behaviour by rewarding them when Positive Behaviour Intervention Supports. We are enthusiastic with the responses from family and students in regards that students can do their work without worrying about their safety. Additionally, we excited to see that we are able to provide our students a healthy and inviting learning environments where they are protected from physical and emotional harm, this is essential to the mission of our schools. Based on these results we will continue to strive to reach 100% of our students feeling supported and AIPCS II will continue to find strategies and programs to support these initiatives.|2019-10-15|We strive to provide students with a healthy and inviting learning environment where they are protected from physical and emotional harm. Safe schools are not just places with advanced security procedures. They are also places that help students develop, allowing them to succeed even in difficult circumstances. Safe schools encourage healthy behaviors that help students learn about fitness, nutrition, and healthy choices and are essential to the mission of our schools.|Met|2019
01612590111856|American Indian Public High|6|We conducted an annual survey to get results on school climate.  The survey is given to 9th-12th students/families.  Below are the results for students and families. Student Survey 1: At school I am able to do my work without worrying about my physical and/or emotional safety. 71% of the students agreed or strongly agreed with the statement.  2: I feel I am a part of this school. 69% of the students agreed or strongly agreed with the statement.  3: Teachers and other grown-ups at school care about me. 76% of the students agreed or strongly agreed with the statement.  Family Survey 1: At school my child is able to do his/her work without worrying about his/her physical or emotional safety 91% of the families indicated that they agreed or strongly agree with the statement.  2: This school has a supportive learning environment for my child. 65% of the families indicated that they agreed or strongly agree with the statement.  Strengths: We are excited about the response of students and families are able to do their work without worrying about their physical or emotionally safety. Our key mission at AIPHS is that we are a family at AIMS. We could improve the experience of students and the impression of families feeling that their kids are supported academically and socio-emotionally and affirming positive behaviors by explicitly rewarding them through our PBIS program and incentives program.   We have developed group therapy programs to support the whole child and emotional health wellbeing.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
09737830121566|American River Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
37683380136663|America's Finest Charter|6|AFCS has implemented a Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) this school year. The 3 behavioral expectations are Respect, Responsibility and Community. We have a matrix that is easy and explicit that has been posted on our campus including classrooms, lunch area, and outside areas for our students and families. The new system includes rewards for exhibiting these expectations campus wide. Field trips, frozen yogurt, and pizza parties are all apart of our new system that is in place. Classroom’s points are recorded through Class Dojo. Any staff members can give students points when they are exhibiting these behavioral expectations.  America’s Finest Charter School recently conducted a School Climate Survey as a local measure to evaluate students perceptions and school connectedness.  The survey was sent to 103 students in grades 3-12.  At AFCS, we place the highest value on school safety and ensuring that students feel connected to school.  AFCS used Google Forms to conduct a comprehensive analysis of our recent student survey results. We are able to provide the following summaries for specific items which are most relevant to our student population and school mission: 1)”Teachers treat me with respect”: 78% students feel that all teachers always treat students with respect, 75% students feel that the school always has clear rules for behavior, 75% students feel that the school always wants the students do well in education.  One area that we are working on is that students treat each other well.  Many activities and classroom lessons are helping our school with this area.  We have Restorative Justice Circle to help students when they do not treat others respectfully.  We will conduct this survey by the end of the school year to evaluate our PBIS system.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
30664230000000|Anaheim Elementary|6|AESD utilizes the Panorama School Climate survey in order to better understand the climate and culture of our schools.  It’s administered annually in the spring to 3rd - 6th graders at every school.  In 2019,  5,613 students participated.  Results of the survey were shared with the LCAP committee as well as with each school site.  The survey measures student's perceptions of their School Climate and Culture  along with self reported Social Emotional Learning skills.   High percentages of students rated the following dimensions in the percentage of students answering favorably to the survey questions.  School Climate and Culture Indicators: “Teacher-Student Relationships” (68% favorable) “Sense of Belonging” (63% favorable) “School Climate” (59% favorable) “School Safety” (58% favorable) “Engagement” (56% favorable)   Social-Emotional Learning Indicators: “Self-Management” (66% favorable) “Social Awareness” (65% favorable) “Emotion Regulation” (51% favorable)  Based on analysis of the 2019 survey results, the following indicators were selected as a focus area within the LCAP: “Student Engagement” which measures how invested and attentive students are in class.   The percent of students scoring the favorable range for Student Engagement will increase from 56% to 59%. “Emotion Regulation” which measures how well students regulate their emotions.  The percent of students self reporting in the favorable range for Emotion Regulation will increase from 51% to 54%.  Based on question-level analysis of this dimension, input was gathered from the LCAP committee to inform new goals and activities to strengthen students’ experiences regarding school climate.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
30664310000000|Anaheim Union High|6|Surveys are an important part of our data collection process in AUHSD, as they provide student perceptions, responses and beliefs on school connectedness, resiliency, protective factors, and risk behaviors. Surveys are a critical component of school and district improvement efforts to help guide the development of more effective health, prevention, and youth development programs. AUHSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey, Exit Surveys, and LCAP Surveys. In these surveys, 89% of junior high students and 88% of high school students feel connected to their school. When asked about student participation, 89% of our students feel that there are a lot of opportunities to be involved in extra-curricular activities. Our areas of strength are the result of our continual efforts to implement programs that build a positive school climate and keep kids connected to school.   We have Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (PBIS) at each school, a focus on Multi-Tiered Systems of support (MTSS), and fully implemented school safety teams. Additionally, we have Licensed Clinical Social Workers who provide support and provide professional development related to Mental Health/Mental Wellness. Finally, our schools focus on First Best Instruction in every classroom, to improve academics, increase student engagement, and decrease unwanted behaviors. We have some areas of growth identified after looking at our local climate survey data related to safety and connectedness.   Overall, feelings towards student safety continue to be an area interest. According to the data, the percentage of students feeling unsafe is declining, however, the percentage of students who feel neither safe or unsafe is increasing. Nationwide tragedies in schools have contributed to this increasing area of uncertainty among both junior high and high school students. As a District, we have focused our efforts to ensure that students, parents, and community members feel safe at school. These efforts include improving communication and strengthening the collaboration between school site safety teams, law enforcement, and our community. Our efforts have prevented more students from feeling unsafe, but have not convinced them that no threat to their safety will ever occur.  We are also focused on increasing student involvement in activities and engagement since 89% of our students recognize that there are many opportunities at our schools, but only 65% take advantage of these offerings. Some of the school climate challenges/barriers we face in AUHSD are related to the socio-economic status of our students.  As a result of our surveys, we have implemented several initiatives to improve school climate including a transformational process called Capturing Kids’ Hearts which promotes skill development, self-managing classrooms, and decreased discipline issues. Restorative Practices are implemented and three full-time Restorative Practices Coaches support our schools.|2019-06-13|Anaheim Union High School District's focus on creating a positive school culture through programs such as Capturing Kids' Hearts, Pathways to Success (an alternative means of correction program), restorative practices, Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), and a Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) at each school, have led to significant improvement in suspension rates over the last three years. In 2016-17, our suspension rate was 5.8%. Projections from our student information system show our suspension rate in 2018-19 as close to half that number.|Met|2019
19768850132928|Anahuacalmecac International University Preparatory of North America|6|AIUP is committed to ensuring that all students access academic, cultural, and community resources aimed at strengthening student educational achievement and overall school climate. Anahuacalmecac developed and carried out its own unique climate survey because the California Healthy Kids Survey fails to address concerns specific to our student population with regards to indigenous identity, generational trauma and community- informed trauma. Anahuacalmecac is a sanctuary for our students. Trauma caused by violent experiences our students may have faced outside of our school context also impact learning. As one example, half of our students surveyed reported to have heard gunshots at least once in their life within their community. This simple question leads us to inquire into other levels of exposure to traumatic incidents our students may experience outside of the school which may also impact learning or more clearly indicate what needs our school can work to address to increase school and community safety.  While a climate survey is not a yearly requirement, our school has a great interest in school connectedness & safety for students. The last three years we have administered a school climate survey. Anahuacalmecac administered the survey at least one grade level within our grade spans, TK-12. An outstanding 93% of student respondents strongly agreed, agreed or were neutral and felt that students in the school “get along well” with each other. Approximately 100% of all students agreed that “indigenous students are valued at this school.” An outstanding 89% of all the students surveyed respondent feels the school creates opportunities for students to get to know each other. Of our high school students, 92% of student respondents agreed with this question. Of our middle school students 81% agreed with this question, students stated that “the schools provides activities like for example the American Indian Health Career Ladder,classroom activities, school activities, workshops and assemblies where we get to know one another.” An outstanding 98% of all students surveyed agreed that teachers in their school actively work to create a safe and welcoming environment for every student. An amazing 98% of TK-8th grade respondents agreed with this question. Of our high school students surveyed, an astounding 100% agreed with this question, students stated that “we help everyone feel safe .” Key in our school wide strategy is to provide access to cultural ceremonies and other community-based learning experiences.|2019-10-12|As tensions and traumas around the world heighten tensions for everyone but especially for children and Indigenous communities, schools like ours must continue to strive to strengthen the ways in which we work towards healing as a part of learning. Through culture and language, community and character-building, we will continue to strive to build resilience among our youth.|Met|2019
45698564530333|Anderson New Technology High|6|Every year our student are given a survey through the New Tech Network as well as a survey through our district such as the California Healthy Kids Survey.  School Climate is always one of our strongest components as perceived by the students.  In School connectedness, Peer Relationships and adult Relationships, the students consistently give us feedback in the 90% range. The surveys include school culture, learning experiences, rules and discipline processes, peer relationships, adult relationships and College and career readiness. 90% of our students’ responses are that they feel prepared for college and career, yet there is also some apprehension about actually going to college.  This is an area in which we feel we need to help our students understand that they are ready and to have confidence in that knowledge.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
45698560000000|Anderson Union High|6|In the categories of Total School Supports, Caring Adults in School, High Expectations-adults in School and Meaningful Participation at School the average reporting was "very much true". An area of concern is that a significant number of students reported depression and/or suicidal thoughts. We provided anti-suicide training for all staff and purchased materials for 9th grade classes. We increased social/emotional counseling services. The District Suspension rate declined 1.3%. Average class sizes in core subjects ranged from 27-20 students/period. Average number of counselors per student is less than 290. Spending on students reached an average of $8231/student.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
23655400000000|Anderson Valley Unified|6|The Anderson Valley Unified School District surveyed all students in Grades K-12 regarding school climate. Of the 286 students who responded to the first survey item, 76% agreed or strongly agreed with the statement, “I feel close to people at this school.” Of the 286 respondents, 79% agreed or strongly agreed with the statement, “I am happy to be at this school.” The statement, “I feel like I am a part of this school,” drew agreement or strong agreement from 74% of the 301 respondents. The statement, “The teachers at this school treat students fairly,” drew agreement or strong agreement from 71% of 301 students. Of the 282 students who responded to the final survey item, 83% agreed or strongly agreed with the statement, “I feel safe in my school.”|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19101990136119|Animo City of Champions Charter High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has an out of school suspension rate of 9.76%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330124883|Animo College Preparatory Academy|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 2%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 95% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19734370137984|Animo Compton Charter|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. At full scale, the school will administer the survey to 9th and 11th graders as well.  The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has an out of school suspension rate of 8.14%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 85% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330123992|Animo Ellen Ochoa Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids.  The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices.  The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 6.6%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, 100% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330134023|Animo Florence-Firestone Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 1.38%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, 100% of parents would recommend the school|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19646341996586|Animo Inglewood Charter High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 3%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 90% of parents would recommend the school|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330111583|Animo Jackie Robinson High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 2%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 98% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330124008|Animo James B. Taylor Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 1.8%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 97% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330122481|Animo Jefferson Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has an out of school suspension rate of 3.66%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 96% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647091996313|Animo Leadership High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 1.8%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 94% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330124016|Animo Legacy Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has suspension rate of 15.45%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 90% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330129270|Animo Mae Jemison Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 2.5%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 99% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330106849|Animo Pat Brown|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices.  The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has an out of school suspension rate of 2%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, 100% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330124024|Animo Phillis Wheatley Charter Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330111575|Animo Ralph Bunche Charter High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a l suspension rate of 1.57%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 98% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330102434|Animo South Los Angeles Charter|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 2 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 5%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 87% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330106831|Animo Venice Charter High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 5.1%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 97% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330111625|Animo Watts College Preparatory Academy|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids.  The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices.  The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager.  To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP.  The school has a suspension rate of 2.5%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 99% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330122499|Animo Westside Charter Middle|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 2.8%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 94% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
52714720000000|Antelope Elementary|6|Data:  School survey data generally shows a very safe and connected district for all students and parents at all grade levels.  From k-5 for example, 92% of all students feel safe at school.  For 6-8, 96% of parents surveyed indicated that their children report feeling safe at school.   Meaning: These results are consistent when disaggregated among various student populations, from ethnicity, special programs, or socio economic levels. Use: While the district finds these results to be exceptionally positive, there is always room for improvement.  With that in mind, a focus is placed on continuing to maintain and develop strategies and procedures to ensure safety at our schools and connectivity between the schools and our families.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19648570112714|Antelope Valley Learning Academy|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  97% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  97% reported that they felt connected to the school *  98% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19642460000000|Antelope Valley Union High|6|DATA: School pride maintained at over 82% agreement for students; it grew for parents from 88% agreement to 92% (7% growth in strongly agree); employee pride maintained over 95% agreement (6% growth in strongly agree).  Caring relationships grew for student to over 87%; for parents it grew to over 91%; employee maintained a 99% of being intentional about creating positive relationships with students.  Students feeling safe at school grew to over 74% (improving by about 2%); parent’s perceptions of school safety grew to over 86% (6% growth to strongly agree); employees reported feeling safer at work to over 86% (6% growth to strongly agree).  Over 90% of students, parents and employees felt that the school provided enough resources to be successful.  Only 53.5% of students feel there school is clean and well-maintained.  Parent’s perceptions of school cleanliness was up 3% to 83.9% and employees up 2% to 75.5%.  For technology as a regular part of the student’s educational experience, students, parents and employees report over 93% agreement.  Open lines of communication are high for all stakeholders (83.4% for students, 89.8% for parents and 84.5% for employees).  Percentage of student participation in school related activities, clubs, programs or sports had 67.4% while parents and employees inflated this participation metric with 77% of parents saying their child is involved and 96% of employees saying they actively encourage student to be involved.  Student’s belief that there is a teacher or other adult at school who has high expectations of them grew to 86.1% while parents and employees guessed this number slightly higher at 92.3% and 98.5%.  Finally, connectedness to the school for students grew to 61.3% while parents and employees agreed with student connectivity at 87.1% and 84.9%. MEANING: This data revealed slow and steady progress at all of our schools.  Within this growth, disparities still exist between student perception and adult perception.  Areas of strength continue to be in overall school climate, including relationships between adults and students and school safety.  Work still needs to be done to improve the cleanliness of our campuses, particularly the older sites.  Connectivity to the school and student involvement seem to be strongly correlated and so efforts will be undertaken to increase school participation in activities, programs, clubs and sports. USE: Each school reviewed this data and made adjustments to their Single Plans for Student Achievement based upon feedback received.  Many of the schools expressed joy in that many of their actions were already starting to yield results.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
07616486115703|Antioch Charter Academy|6|Sixth through eighth grade students participated in a student survey in June of 2019.  The survey included 56 scale response questions and one open-ended response questions to measure student opinion about the school climate. 98% of students feel safe at the school.  92% of students are happy to be at the school.  98% of students report feeling close to people at the school.  85% of students feel that teachers at the school treat students fairly, while 15% of students do not feel teachers at the school treat students fairly.  95% of the students feel there is a teacher or some other adult at the school who always wants them to do their best.  Overall, the data shows the students feel that the climate of the school is positive.   One area for growth is with student input and feedback.  40% of students feel they don’t have a say in how things work at the school and 22% feel that the teachers or other adults don’t listen to them when they have something to say.|2019-11-07||Met|2019
07616480115063|Antioch Charter Academy II|6|Fourth through eighth grade students participated in a student survey in spring, 2019.  The survey included 48 scale response questions and two open-ended response questions to measure student opinion about the school climate. 95% of students feel safe at the school.  97% of students think the school is a good school.  97% of students report treating other people with respect, but 28% of students do not feel that they are treated with respect by other students at school.  97% of students agree that teachers expect them to do their best and challenge them to do their personal best. Overall, the data shows the students feel that the climate of the school is positive.  In the open-ended response questions, many students responded that they like the freedom and the choice they are given at the school.  One area for growth is related to using the school's philosophy of Positive Discipline, including the use of classroom meetings.  32% of students report that they do not feel classroom meetings help solve conflicts.  48% of students do not feel good about putting things on the agenda for classroom meeting discussion.  Based on this data, ACAII will seek alternate strategies to teach students how to resolve conflicts.|2019-11-07||Met|2019
07616480000000|Antioch Unified|6|Antioch Unified School District’s main areas of increased focus based on the 2017-18 California Healthy Kids Survey key are academic motivation, facilities upkeep, and school safety.  Student responses in each of these areas indicate growth opportunities for the district.    Academic Motivation - 34% of Secondary and 19% of Elementary students surveyed expressed "low" academic motivation.  Several programs and support were built into the LCAP plan.  AVID is being implemented in 3 elementary schools, 3 middle schools, and 3 high schools.  This program facilitates the use of engaging instructional strategies along with an emphasis on college to motivate students.  Additionally, digital content subscription for mathematics and reading are being used to support students who are below grade level proficiency to prevent students from losing academic motivation.  Secondary sites offer multiple opportunities for elective offering and partner with the local community college to offer dual and articulated courses.  Facilities Upkeep - 50% of secondary students disagree that schools are clean and tidy.  Additional funding is reserved for deferred maintenance.  A bond measure will be presented to the local board for approval with the intent of improving aging buildings, infrastructure, and grounds.  The maintenance and operations department staffing will be evaluated to determine if additional personnel is needed.  School Safety - 50% of secondary students and 70% of elementary students feel safe or very safe at school.  To support student safety, additional site safety staffing is present at each middle school and high school.  In reviewing site discipline data, many physical altercations occur during passing period, lunch, and other non-instructional time.  Increased adult presence is showing a reduction in fighting, bullying, and harassment.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330117077|APEX Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
36750770000000|Apple Valley Unified|6|The data for this item comes from two main areas:  The Gallup Student Poll administered annually in grades 5-12 and the input of students during the Superintendent's student advisory.  The Gallup Poll Data allows for a consistent data set over time that is also nationally normed.  The data is reported by grade level but not by student subgroup.  The Gallup Student Poll provides data in two key areas related to school climate: Engagement and Hope.  In the area of Engagement, the district-wide grand mean on a five-point scale was 3.86 which was up slightly from the year prior.   The general trend across grade levels shows a decline from 5th to 11th grade and a slight increase at the 12th grade.  The specific items that showed the greatest need for growth include such things as "At this school, I get to do what I do best every day." (3.54) and "In the last seven days, someone has told me that I have done good work." (3.42) . In the area of Hope, students report an overall mean of 4.23 on the same scale.  The most notable area of need here is the item, "I have a mentor who encourages my development." (3.48).  The data from this survey is shared throughout the District LCAP development process and the District Advisory Committee weighs this as the prioritize action items.  Also, the student statements from the Superintendent's advisory give students a direct voice in the process to improve school climate.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
43693696046247|Aptitud Community Academy at Goss|6|Aptitud Community Academy at Goss is committed to providing all students and families with a safe, welcoming and caring environment conducive to learning. We are in our third year of the implementation of Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) program as well as Restorative Justice with the goal of reducing incidents and disciplinary actions while working to increase the socio-emotional support at our site. In the 2017/2018 school year, suspensions at Aptitud maintained a similar pattern as in previous years.   Students and parents have also been surveyed using the Panorama survey which focuses on school climate. Survey responses indicate that 91% of parents believe Aptitud is a safe place while 97% of parents believe that their child feels welcomed by school staff. The students’ responses differ from those of the parents. 53% of Middle School students feel that Aptitud is a safe place while only 43% of them feel a sense of belonging at school. At the elementary level, 59% of students feel safe at school and 62% of them feel like they belong at school. Both groups elementary and middle school had a similar response to feeling supported academically with 74% at the elementary level and 71% at the middle school level.  The survey was also given to all teachers and 51% of them report feeling safe at school. 86% of teachers indicated that the students are familiar with the school rules, norms, and policies. 76% of teachers agree that students at Aptitud are treated by adults with respect. 88% of teachers agreed that the school rules are fair to all students. 87% of teachers also indicated that they feel supported in the area of Academic Learning and 81% of teachers indicated that they have a Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness) with 80% of them reporting that adults at Aptitud treat each other with respect.|2019-10-29|The climate at Aptitud Community Academy has improved tremendously during the past 3 years. In 2016-2017 Aptitud had a total of 24 suspension with a duration of 49 days. In 2017-2018 Aptitud had 16 suspensions with a duration of 27 days. For 2018-2019, Aptitud had a total of 6 suspensions with a duration of 10 days. We have made a strong effort to support our students and teachers by bringing presentations/assemblies on bullying, cyber bullying, and harassment, etc.   We have also provided teachers with professional development in the area of Restorative Justice and we implemented it with our students. We have engaged students that are having conflicts with one another in conflict resolution conversations. Each month we have the word of the month which focuses on a different character trait. Students the best display the trait of the month get selected as the students of the month.   Having a positive approach with students through PBIS has also impacted our students because we maintain a positive approach rather than a punitive one.|Met|2019
19647330121079|Ararat Charter|6|In reviewing our student surveys, we observed that most students felt strongly in how the school engages and supports students.The focus area that we observed in school engagements and supports that we will be focusing on is finding additional ways to provide meaningful participation as this was an area that students felt could be strengthened. As it relates to school safety the majority of our students indicated that they feel safe at school. We did notice that students in 4th and 5th grade still feel that more can be done as it pertains to being pushed, hit, or called bad names at school This is an area that the school will continue to work on especially with our upper grade students in 4th and 5th. It was great to see that most students feel that they are treated with respect. We will be focusing on how students are treated when they break rules and many students noted that this could be area for the school to work on. As students move to 5th grade, we also noticed that students in 5th grade felt that students could behave better at school. We will also be working with our Positive Behavior Support Team on different approaches to support students in engaging in positive interactions with other students.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19642610000000|Arcadia Unified|6|Data: Arcadia Unified School District (AUSD) administers the California School Climate and Health Learning Survey (CalSCHLS) annually to students in grades 5, 7, and 9.  Students' perceptions about school connectedness are as follows: 5th Grade - 78%, 7th Grade: 72%, and 9th Grade 60%. Because the area of school connected was recalibrated last school year, students are showing a significant increase in their feelings of school connectedness among all three grades.  Students' perceptions about feeling safe at school reflect the following percentages for the 2018-2019 school year: 5th Grade - 86%, 7th Grade: 78%, 9th Grade: 69%. 5th-grade students are showing a 1% increase in their perceptions about feeling safe at school. Students in both 7th and 9th grade maintained percentages, showing the exact same percentages as last school year.    Meaning: The CalSCHLS data shows that students are not only feeling connected to school they have high perceptions of feeling safe as school as well. We are seeing that the feelings of connectedness and safety are declining as they progress through grade spans.   Use: The data is shared with principals and is reflected through the action steps listed in Goal 4 on Developing the Whole Child. Program implementation such as Leader in Me and Restorative Practices serve as resources for maintaining and increasing our high percentages of school connectedness and feelings of safety at school. Arcadia Unified has partnered with Alan Daly to get additional data on the social climate of the entire organization. Surveys were administered during the second semester of the 18-19 school year and data was shared at our October 22, 2019 board meeting. The data from both sources will help us to continue to reflect and evaluate our practices for a healthy social climate.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
12626790000000|Arcata Elementary|6|The Arcata School District annually surveys students, parents, and staff. Each survey includes a section on school climate. The following are 2019 survey responses regarding school climate:  Students 72% of students indicate they “feel safe at school.”  33% of students indicate “students at their school are respectful and kind” and another 55% of students indicate “students at their school are mostly respectful and kind” 91% of students indicate there is at least one adult they can talk to if they have a problem at school.  Staff 82% of staff feel “extremely safe” or “quite safe” at school  Parent/Guardian 76% of of parents/guardians indicate their “children feel safe at school” 67% of parents/guardians feel “the school community is inclusive and caring towards all students” 80% of parents/guardians indicate their “child feels like a part of the school community “  66% of parents/guardians feel “the school addresses student issues in a positive and appropriate way”  Summary: Based on the survey conducted in the Spring of 2019, Students, Staff, and Parents/Guardians appear to feel safe and welcome at our school sites. Students appear to generally feel comfortable in their interactions with both adults and other students, and confident in the availability of adult support.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
56725460120634|Architecture, Construction & Engineering Charter High (ACE)|6|ACE implements a progressive ladder of discipline when it comes to working with students. After we have gone to great lengths to meet student needs given specific situations, we will always follow the rules that guide us. We do not fudge numbers, and will suspend if the actions meet the consequence - after all other options are exhausted. Our survey results show that ACE students feel safe, and although improvements are always evident, we follow through on holding students accountable, even if our piie color remains red.|2019-10-10|Our school climate is excellent. Students and staff feel safe here. We handle 100% of the issues that come to administration, and ACE staff has been well trained in how to work with all types of students.|Met|2019
34672800000000|Arcohe Union Elementary|6|Looking at the results from the California Healthy Kids Survey administered in the Spring of 2019, several key statistics stick out.  Of the students surveyed, 71% of students felt a high degree of connectedness to school and 71% felt they were very safe at school.  Both of these figures are down slightly from the survey administered in 2017 where 73.6% were connected and 79% felt very safe at school.  It is important to note these perceptions are different from the fact students are coming to school more often than before and there are far less office referrals for unsafe behaviors than in the 2016-17 school year.  The school will continue to work on these student perceptions by increasing connecting activities and enhancing staff visibility during school hours.  Both of these statistics can be found in the LCAP as target areas for improvement.  It is also worth noting that 98% of all fifth grade students administered felt academically motivated.  The recent of state test scores supports this assertion.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
23655570000000|Arena Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
29663730136424|Arete Charter Academy|6|Our 5th and 7th graders participated in the annual California Healthy Kids survey, but did not have enough replies to be considered statistically significant.  The data shows that throughout the K-8 grade span, 48/50 students who completed surveys (95%) reported they were positively connected to their school. No students were suspended, expelled or dropped out of school. No students were chronically absent while at Arete Charter Academy. The meaning of the data shows that students feel safe at Arete. Many students come to Arete because they struggle with social anxiety or feel that they have been bullied during their school career. There have been no reported cases at Arete and students educational needs are being met, as they are assigned curriculum that is modified to meet their needs. There is a small teacher to student ratio and all Resource Center teachers are trained in Trauma Informed practices to better enable them to meet the diverse needs of our students.  Our school was designed to meet the needs of a very diverse group of students, both academically struggling and advanced. Daily, we are evaluating and modifying our techniques and strategies to better meet out students' and families' needs and will continue to do so. This next year, we will give a more thorough survey to our Arete students to better gauge the areas that we could improve as a school.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
01612590115238|ARISE High|6|We are increasing student leadership and involvement in the school. We are writing a weekly student newsletter to keep students informed of the happenings at the school and seek student input and leadership in a variety of new ways. Our leadership class has taken on increased responsibilities and decision making at the school. We have also started student surveys (made my the leadership students) to seek input about teacher practice. We have also began to deepen our restorative practices, which includes creating a more welcoming and equitable community and school environment. Our culture team and leadership teams meet to create new initiatives for safety, joy, and community building with students. Our restorative discipline is inclusive of students and seeks to have suspensions completely eliminated to solve issues and harm in house. We specifically want to increase the sense that discipline is fair from 45% to 60% and the sense of belonging from 60% to 70%.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
16638750000000|Armona Union Elementary|6|We administered a local climate survey to students enrolled in our district during the spring of 2019. We were able to structure classroom discussions in such a way that we were able to garner input from students in grades TK-8. There were 287 students that participated in the local survey, which we administer bi-annually to all stakeholders. We have used this survey for the past several years, and have found that student responses are a valuable part of the impact on our LCAP. 69% of students indicated they felt protected and safe. We also had 68% of students that were positive about feeling what they have to say is important. We also had 78% of students indicate that adults are interested in making sure they attend school. We have a focused effort on adults supporting students with unconditional positive regard, which includes responding in positive, specific, and supporting ways to students. We continue to work in demonstrating strength in our school climate and culture. The district LCAP Goal 2: Provide a safe instructional program for students, staff, and parents is aligned to this priority.  The district has continued to implement supports provided to students through the lens of a  Multi-Tiered Systems of Support, and they continue to have an impact on students across the district. We have a full time nurse and a Marriage and Family Therapist, and a student specialist at each site to assist us in support where the data showed a deficiency. We see this process as a strength in meeting the needs of all students, including English Language Learners and students with exceptional needs. While our parent survey results show that parents feel staff values their input in the decision making at school, 32% of our students do not feel that the staff makes them feel like what they have to say is important. We are addressing this through our additional student support staff, positive behavior interventions, positive self regard training, positive discipline, and Trauma Informed practices that helps adults learn how to work with all students, but especially those that have been affected by trauma. We will continue to work with all staff, parents, and students to fulfill our motto of “Small but Proud”. We will continue to hold monthly parent nights, where parents and students come together to complete standards based hands-on activities. This has helped us connect what is happening in the classroom with how parents can support the learning at home. We will continue to work together to create additional opportunities for parents to be involved in their child’s education.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
35752590000000|Aromas - San Juan Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
37680236116859|Arroyo Vista Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19647330123158|Arts In Action Community Charter|6|The school administers a school climate survey to parents, students and teachers each year. Information is shared through professional learning communities, through classroom teachers, and through parent workshops, parent committee, and strategic planning. The school climate survey results were informative and helpful on a variety of levels. Key takeaways from the survey results were: students are more highly skewed towards tier 3 in terms of the need for socio-emotional supports. Parents were happy with the parent workshop opportunities. The disaggregated results of the school climate surveys show: There has been consistent growth in all areas including: facilities and maintenance, socio-emotional, behavioral and academic supports, parent and student engagement opportunities and school culture. Results of the school climate surveys showed that Arts in Action is continuously improving in the programming and services available to families and students.  Challenges included external factors. Some students do not feel safe walking to school. There are several factors at play: our school is located in a largely industrial area with cars that drive fast and limited pedestrian walkways. In addition, there is the threat of gang violence. As a result, we have increased staff presence and have opened up free early morning care and after-school. Another challenge is the number of students who expressed feelings of anxiety, depression, or trauma. Many of our students are impacted by poverty related trauma. We have a large percentage of students who would benefit from counseling, skills groups and socio-emotional lessons.  Strengths include our parent engagement plan and engagement opportunities for parents, the high number of professional development opportunities we are able to offer our teachers, and the variety of activities that students have access to during the school year. Another huge strength is the improvements and growth that we make each year.  Revisions, decisions, or actions that have been implemented according to the results for continuous improvement purposes have included the hiring of a parent engagement coordinator/director and increasing socio-emotional supports through an AIA specific designed socio-emotional curriculum. In addition, the school has done consistent work through MTSS strategic planning. This has allowed the school to view the tiered levels of support for academic, behavioral and socio-emotional needs. We have found the hiring of a parent engagement director to be very helpful. Attendance at parent workshops has increased, and parents appear to be more engaged.  The creation of an AIA specific socio-emotional curriculum has also been very helpful. We have been able to utilize our own expertise and experience and create lessons that are tailored to our students’ needs.|2019-06-22|We have made progress on school climate each year.|Met|2019
19647330134205|Arts in Action Community Middle|6|The school administers a school climate survey to parents, students and teachers each year. Information is shared through professional learning communities, through classroom teachers, and through parent workshops, parent committee, and strategic planning. The school climate survey results were informative and helpful on a variety of levels. Key takeaways from the survey results were: students are more highly skewed towards tier 3 in terms of the need for socio-emotional supports. Parents were happy with the parent workshop opportunities. The disaggregated results of the school climate surveys show: There has been consistent growth in all areas including: facilities and maintenance, socio-emotional, behavioral and academic supports, parent and student engagement opportunities and school culture. Results of the school climate surveys showed that Arts in Action is continuously improving in the programming and services available to families and students.  Challenges included external factors. Some students do not feel safe walking to school. There are several factors at play: our school is located in a largely industrial area with cars that drive fast and limited pedestrian walkways. In addition, there is the threat of gang violence. As a result, we have increased staff presence and have opened up free early morning care and after-school. Another challenge is the number of students who expressed feelings of anxiety, depression, or trauma. Many of our students are impacted by poverty related trauma. We have a large percentage of students who would benefit from counseling, skills groups and socio-emotional lessons.  Strengths include our parent engagement plan and engagement opportunities for parents, the high number of professional development opportunities we are able to offer our teachers, and the variety of activities that students have access to during the school year. Another huge strength is the improvements and growth that we make each year.  Revisions, decisions, or actions that have been implemented according to the results for continuous improvement purposes have included the hiring of a parent engagement coordinator/director and increasing socio-emotional supports through an AIA specific designed socio-emotional curriculum. In addition, the school has done consistent work through MTSS strategic planning. This has allowed the school to view the tiered levels of support for academic, behavioral and socio-emotional needs. We have found the hiring of a parent engagement director to be very helpful. Attendance at parent workshops has increased, and parents appear to be more engaged.  The creation of an AIA specific socio-emotional curriculum has also been very helpful. We have been able to utilize our own expertise and experience and create lessons that are tailored to our students’ needs.|2019-06-22||Met|2019
41690216044721|Arundel Elementary|6|SCSD administers the Panorama Student Survey to students annually and these results are used to shape LCAP goals. The results below (% favorable) were reported by students on the spring 2019 survey and reported to the Board on May 23, 2019.  Arundel Safety: 62% Sense of Belonging: 74% Supportive Relationships: 85%  Goal 4 of SCSD’s LCAP specifically targets student engagement and sense of belonging:  Ensure Equitable Access to Learning for all Students and Increase Student Engagement and Sense of Belonging Within Each School Community. Specific actions have been established to address school climate, sense of belonging, active participation, caring adults and high expectations. Ensuring more student voice and choice, increasing student engagement opportunities and Project-Based Learning, and implementing Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), and beginning to develop a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) across all schools were identified as high impact actions.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
15633130000000|Arvin Union|6|The Arvin Union School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey each year to grades 5 and 7 providing a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The district reports these results to the board at a regularly scheduled meeting of the local governing board and to stakeholders and the public through the California School Dashboard. Key learnings indicate:   Elementary scores indicate caring relationships grew 8% over a 3 year span with growth each year.   High expectations, perceived school safety, and school connectedness are all above 70% and exceed the initial year base score of 3 years ago but declined slightly this past year.  Caring relations, high expectations, and meaningful participation are above the state average.  Low Violence perpetration and Low Violence victimization is on a positive trend and is above the state 2016-2018 average indicated on the West Ed report card.  Middle school scores indicate school connectedness (up 4%) and high expectations (up 1%) are up over the three year trend.  Academic motivation, meaningful participation, and caring adult relationships, are up 3% to 5% compared to 2017-2018.  District areas of strength are high expectations/academic motivation.  These have been an area of intense focus of professional development with InnovateEd.  In addition, caring adult relationships has been a focus as part of our PBIS culture building and scores reflect this work with growth between 2017-2018 and 2018-2019.   Meaningful participation is a specific need as the Healthy Kids Survey results indicate a sharp decline of 10% at the elementary sites from the previous year.  The decrease in scores is mirrored in elementary scores for school connectedness.    This is the lowest scoring area with a current 47% positive response at the elementary schools and a 35% positive response at the middle school.   While slight gains were made at the middle school level, the decline at the elementary level is concerning.   A review of questions as a part of district walkthroughs is being conducted to bring attention to this area and will be a topic at site leadership meetings.  Teacher teams at all sites have taken over the PBIS leadership role focusing on school culture building with engaging activities and incentives and the after-school program is expanding its role in supporting student belongingness and engagement.   In addition, unit and lesson development focused on student engagement is becoming stronger with the long term outcome of student voice being acknowledged throughout the schools.    PBIS teams, use of SWIS and Tiered Fidelity Index survey data, expanded training of Safe School Ambassadors, continued training on Restorative Justice, use of Campus Supervisors, on-site Social Workers, a Dean of Student Success at the middle school, and a continued district-wide focus on trauma informed care provide a foundation for meeting expectations of growth in areas indicated.|2019-10-15|The district's focus is to ensure students feel safe, connected, and academically challenged at school however the PBIS Tiered Fidelity Inventory indicates all district schools score in the Tier 1 Range. There continues to be a focus on student engagement and collaborative learning with a new focus on outcomes of implementation. The district utilizes the Safe School Ambassador Program to teach student leadership and the PBIS program to focus on self-monitoring of behavior. All sites record information in SWIS (Schoolwide Information System) to seek patterns of behavior for intervention and the  Alternative Learning Academy focuses on restorative practices as an alternative to suspension. District-wide professional development this year with Patrick Briggs focused on building relationships and the district continues to work on implementing restorative practices. Professional Development materials have been purchased for all instructional staff members to bring this work to full scale under the umbrella of Multi-tiered Systems of Support.   Inventory review and action plan steps to address identified items began in September and work will continue throughout the year. Next steps include creating a visual representation of Tiered Supports indicating the nuances of each Tier’s purpose, resources, and intensity level to support coherence and clarity to ensure equitable responses to students needs to be implemented immediately and modified as services expand.|Met|2019
36678760107730|ASA Charter|6|ASA Charter School administers a local climate survey (in addition to the Satisfaction Survey) at least every other year to provide a valid measure of the perceptions of school safety and connectedness to students in at least one grade within the grade span(s) that the LEA serves (e.g., K–5, 6–8, 9–12).  ASA Charter is responsible for reporting the results to our local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting, to stakeholders, and to the public through the California School Dashboard and our school website.   By conducting a School Climate Survey, it measures overall perceptions of school safety, student wellbeing, and school climate. A Positive Behaviors and Interventions Supports (PBIS) survey was offered to students/families currently attending ASA Charter School. This survey was conducted in the Fall of 2019.   School Climate Survey Key Area Results: School Safety Student Respect High Standards of Achievement Communication Helpful and Caring Teachers and Staff Student Behaviors Social Emotional Needs  ASA Charter School has learned that there is an overall sense of safety at ASA Charter School.  Students, families and staff feel that there are adults available to help when needed.  Results show that teachers not only treat students with respect, but want them to achieve academic success and have high standards for that achievement. Communication was also reflected in a positive manner.  ASA Charter School has identified challenges in the area of social emotional behaviors within our student population.  The students reported that there is an identified need for learning how to treat each other better and they felt that the behaviors exhibited in the classroom could improve.  We are taking a proactive role in changing this perception. ASA Charter School has adopted character development strategies and uses C.L.A.S.S. (Character, Leadership, Attitude, Scholarship and Service) throughout our entire school culture.    ASA Charter School has implemented several strategies for continuous improvement school-wide. We have implemented a Parent Engagement Policy and a Parent/Student/Teacher Compact, as well as developing a School-wide Plan for Improvement.  Social Emotional supports are in place to assist with Self Esteem and Anger Management skills.  This year ASA has partnered with Limitless Heights to offer Teen Empowerment Activities after school for our middle school students and an After School Education and Safety (ASES) program for our elementary students.  Our school Counselor is also available to assist students with Self Esteem and Anger Management Skills on a daily basis.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
01612596118608|ASCEND|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, ASCEND administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and ASCEND has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, ASCEND students rated 3.7 on Student Relationships, which includes evaluating sense of belonging and sense of safety. Based on results from the survey, ASCEND will continue to implement a Strong Start curriculum to ensure strong classroom cultures that support belonging and student learning.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
10621660133942|Aspen Meadow Public|6|1. The data derived from parent/guardian climate surveys indicate that our families believe that their teachers are caring and respectful (87%), that their children are excited to come to school each day (87%), and the learning environment meet their child’s needs (86%).  A majority of students reported that they feel safe at school (87%).  These data help us understand that the instructional and relational methods we have adopted are meeting the needs of most of our students. 2. Our analysis suggests that student perceptions of school safety would be an important area of focus.  We would like to find out more about our students’ perceptions of safety and how we might ensure that all students feel safe while on campus.  We have a full-time and part-time after school resource officer on staff. They students interact with them and parents/guardians feel safe with security on campus. The school adopted Franklin Covey "The Leader in Me" in 2016, which encourages student leadership, empathy and kindness. 3. In order to further strengthen our school climate and culture, we added additional time for Lunch on the Lawn this year that focused on what it means to be a leader as Aspen Public School.  We also added a social emotional curriculum that is being implemented for all grade levels.  We plan to continue our training and implementation of MTSS Tier 2 supports, including work on Trauma Informed Practices, Interventions for academic need as well as behavior needs, and Restorative Practices.  Finally, we intend to further survey our students regarding their perceptions of various facets of school safety.|2019-10-30|Embedded in all we do is an emphasis on leadership education.  We believe that every child – and every adult -- can be a leader.  We have adopted the globally-acclaimed, standards-aligned school culture program, Franklin Covey, Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, The Leader in Me.|Met|2019
10621660106740|Aspen Valley Prep Academy|6|DATA: The data derived from student climate surveys indicate that our students believe that their teachers are caring and respectful (86%), that their teachers know and understand how to help them (83%), and that teachers expect them to do their best and learn at a high level (89%).  A majority of students reported that they feel safe at school (67%).  These data help us understand that the instructional and relational methods we have adopted are meeting the needs of most of our students. The LEA administers a local climate survey every year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness, such as the PBIS Survey, to students, staff and families in the grade span(s) 3-8 and reports the results to its local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting of the local governing board and to stakeholders and the public through the Dashboard.  MEANING: Our analysis suggests that student perceptions of student behavior in class, and how it affects learning, would be an important area of focus.  We would like to find out more about our students’ perceptions and how we might ensure that all students feel respected and safe to learn while on campus.    USE:  In order to further strengthen our school climate and culture, we have added the Family Circle, including rewards for good behavior and awards highlighting character traits in the classrooms. We plan to continue our training and implementation of MTSS Tier 2 supports, including work on Trauma Informed Practices, Interventions for academic need as well as behavior needs, and Restorative Practices.  Finally, we intend to further survey our students regarding their perceptions of various facets of school climate.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
34674470120469|Aspire Alexander Twilight College Preparatory Academy|6|The student survey data reveals that students with disabilities respond less favorably to the question regarding a sense of belonging at school. This year we are implementing a “Peer Ambassador Program” intended to support the development of positive peer relationships and offer leadership opportunities to students. In addition, as a whole school, we celebrate Unity Week, which encourages the building of positive peer relationships across areas of difference.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
34674470121467|Aspire Alexander Twilight Secondary Academy|6|The survey data tells us that students with disabilities and African American students feel less connected to our school compared to other sub groups. The data also tells us that our students with disabilities and African American students feel less safe at school compared to other sub groups. We have been making an conscious effort to hire staff that reflect our students with the goal of providing students with adults they feel connected to.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19101990109660|Aspire Antonio Maria Lugo Academy|6|The dis-aggregated results of the survey show that 82% of students feel safe at school. 76% of students feel a sense of school connectedness and that they belong. This data is strong and in the area of belonging there is an increase from the previous year. Our students with disabilities feel less connected and safe. This is a growth area for us. Our English Learners have the same or slightly higher results than the overall student population. I am interested to know the level of understanding with regard to the questioning.  This year, one of our areas of focus is special education. Inclusion is one of our goals since our Student with Disabilities population has increased significantly. The goal is for all educators to collaborate in planning experiences that will support students’ sense of belonging and safety in all spaces on campus. We have also increased professional development on students with disabilities. The results on this year's student survey data will be apparent.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39686760121541|Aspire APEX Academy|6|At APEX our SWD and EL population have the lowest feelings of belonging at APEX.  Similarly our hispanic population does not feel as safe as other subgroups.  With both in mind, bringing culturally responsiive PBIS around identity, ELD designated support and family outreach should allow more kids in each subgroup to feel as though they are safe, belong and are valued.  This means a lot of all of our staff.  Today sitting in our meeting, I also had ideas of more images and quotes around our school to support the needs and leverage our PTA and other parents whom I have relationships with to support with more activities.  From last school year, we were strong in clubs.  We will also bring them back by winter break with the focus on identity in some form or fashion.  One of my leads is also leading work on Concussions Discipline.  We are making great strides in these areas AND we need to move a bit faster.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39685850101956|Aspire Benjamin Holt College Preparatory Academy|6|We at BHA notice that some students, particularly from the Latinx community, do not have the same level of connectedness with school as we would have predected. We notice that our staffing does not fully reflect the student population we serve. We also notice that there are opportunities for student celebration to be prioritized. BHA has begun offering affinity groups, including Black Student Union and MEChA. Our school is also creating more opportunities to celebrate, including rallies, dances, and lunch time affiliation activities.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39685850133678|Aspire Benjamin Holt Middle|6|In reviewing this data, I noticed that African American Students (30 Students) do not feel a sense of Connectedness at BHM nor feel safe at school.  Our staff is not necessarily reflective of student population.  We currently have 1 African American teacher on campus.  These will be two areas that will be on the forefront of our work.  We are being more intentional about planning town halls, lunch bunch, family lunches, ASC, Advisory workshops, Social Emotional Learning,  types of clubs.  We currently have a full-time counselor and we have a counselor from Why Try 180 who provides counseling services on Thursdays.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612590109819|Aspire Berkley Maynard Academy|6|69% and 73% of students felt welcomed and safe at our school respectively. As a school site, we have been focusing on safety for the past two years which is reflected in 73% positive data.  An area of growth is that African American students feeling of belonging at our school is below the school average. As a school, we are working to include a Black Student Union as well as partnering with the program Walking in Royalty to provide mentorship and space for African American scholars to see our school as a space they belong. We are hoping these programmatic partnerships, in addition to strong morning meetings and advisory lessons, will create a sense of belonging for all our students, in particular our black students.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
34674390102343|Aspire Capitol Heights Academy|6|In looking at our disaggregated results, students overall feel more safe at school than belonging. With our students with disabilities feeling the most belonging ot our school site.  Our Hispanic families scored the lowest results for both belonging and safety.  To support with our Hispanic families, we hosted a Latinx Hertitage Festival to help our our families feel more connected to our campus. In addition, we are thinking through ways to increase our community through parent hours designated each day and holding family engagement sessions  including game nights for our families to increase their sense of belonging.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330126797|Aspire Centennial College Preparatory Academy|6|After reviewing the data from the student, culture and climate survey is that we have various strengths that we should highlight as well as some opportunities for growth. Some of our strengths are that we are maintaining a similar percentage as past years of students who are feeling connected and safe here at CCPA. Student typically like being at our school and therefore return to our school every year until they promote onto high school. Some areas of growth that we are currently working on is increasing the percentage of students who feel a since of belonging at CCPA. Particular our students with IEP’s and students who are language learners. They have reported not feeling socially and emotionally safe and that is a big concern for us a school site. Some barriers that are we are facing with students wanting to be at our school is the having more space and a larger play area for students. They have shared that they are unable to fully enjoy playing their lunch period because the activity they are currently engaging in, overlaps with another group’s activity. For example, A soccer game being played side by side with a basketball game.   After analyzing the disaggregated data from the student climate survey, we see that our students are not feeling connected and safe at CCPA. To better, support all our students’ school-wide we have created an advisory committee to review, and create more intentional social emotional and behavior lessons delivered during advisory. For example,|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612590128413|Aspire College Academy|6|Overall, the low representation and lack of inclusion of the SWD and AA students contributes greatly to students feeling as if they don't belong.However, the low confidence in safety at our school shows that we need to build relationships with scholars and more opportunities for scholars to seek advice and talk through concerns ongoing. This year, we have increased our AA student population, which has created more of a balanced representation of cultures to increase student belonging on our campus. We have also made inclusion of all students one of our big rocks, this includes academically and socially. We now start every class with a circle which has allowed more opportunity for community building among scholars and teachers and it has created space for scholars to share out issues and concerns that are top of mind for them. We will have a better understanding of whether or not our efforts have made a difference when we receive the results of our Q2 climate check survey.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
41689990134197|Aspire East Palo Alto Charter|6|Primary: Overall, our EL and SWD data is higher than average, which is a strength! Growth areas are African American response rates were on the lower end.  2. We can continue to bolster family involvement, Black Excellence, and showcase work on BSU, which is growing! Middle: "Our overall data is not high (41% for connectedness and 48% for safety). However, our rating among SWD for school safety was 73%, so the attention and support we've placed into our SpEd program seems to have paid off. Our rate among EL's seems to be a bit higher than overall too- which reflects the increased support we've placed into our ELD program.  I would like to read more from comments and hold some focus group regarding connectedness and safety on our campus. "|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612590120188|Aspire ERES Academy|6|Strengths:  We have seen an increase in number of students that have indicated that they feel a sense of belonging at our school.  We attribute this to the work we have done in adopting our new socio-emotional curriculum, RULER, in addition to aligning our tk-8 in various community building and restorative justice practices.  Although we have seen growth in belonging and safety, we want to continue improving so that we have 100% of students feeling belonging and safe on our campus.  Our school site action plan includes increasing the number of students reporting belonging and feeling safe at school by continuing our SEL work to include anti-racism lessons and practices in 3-8, and inclusion lessons and practices tk-2. Areas of Growth: Although our numbers are similar in all subgroups, our African American population is so small that data is unavailable.  As a school, we are mindful of our small student subgroups and want to ensure that they also feel included and safe at ERES Academy.  Even though the data is unavailable, we are working to increase enrollment of our African American student population, Admin is holding listening meetings with African American families, and equity training occurs quarterly for staff.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330122622|Aspire Firestone Academy Charter|6|1. One highlight is that we have a higher percentage of our students with dissabilities who feel that they belong at school than their general education peers. An area of growth is that a lower percentage of our EL students feel that they belong than their general education peers. 2. We are continuing our supports for our students with disabilities to ensure that they feel a sense of belonging at our school, and we are also continuing our family engagement in this area. For our EL students, we are implemented a similar program to what we have done with students with disabilities and are creating more family engagement as well as increased support in the classroom for ELs.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330122614|Aspire Gateway Academy Charter|6|We are very happy to see that 84% of students have responded to both questions positively in regards to having sense of belonging as well as feeling safe at school. One of the strengths Gateway carries in attributing to the result is our priority and focus on "relationship building" with all students and families. We've created action goals in enhancing our family engagement. As a result, we've seen tremendous growth in our relationships among all stakeholders. Our growth areas are, however, still in promoting a better understanding of parents who have concerns around other students with behavioral support. To alleviate this, our counselors have conducted anti-bullying sessions in each classroom, three times a year. Additionally, we've planned to include more anti-bullying assemblies and discussions to our parent engagement events to promote better awareness of conflict vs bullying, as well as understanding how school responds to behavioral concerns.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612590118224|Aspire Golden State College Preparatory Academy|6|"1. There is no drastically different results across various subgroups, which indicates we need to improve in this area for the whole school. Additionally, these results were reviewed last year as we created our 19-20 site strategic plan, so belonging as a theme has already been incorporated into plans. Finally, Quarter 2 planning based on data anlaysis in Q1 indicated a need for a safety focus, so safety has been added as a theme/priority for this quarter. 2. We need to ensure we're able to implement actions that promote our themes of belonging and safety. We've purposely held a Quarter 2 launch for every grade level to review our plans with students. We'll also host 2 family-facing town halls regarding anti-bullying/conflict resolution and anti-drugs to better partner and provide resources to families. We are also looking to add more celebration to lift up a more positive culture (GSP value awards, ""Safe Student of the Week"", etc.) We need to work as an entire community: staff, students, and families to achieve our GSP vision of critical literacy and empowerment, which require safety and belonging as foundational steps."|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330124800|Aspire Inskeep Academy Charter|6|Our team of educators were surprised by the 81% favorable response rate of students. We anticipated it being significantly higher based on family feedback, informal feedback shared by students in their personal interactions and community circles, and the capturing of empirical data by leadership and team members throughout our campus. As we reflected on and disaggregaged survey data, we realize that as a school that was completing the turn-around process, we ended the year in a significantly different place then when we started. One of the key areas we noticed in our data is that a few students' behaviors compromised punctuated the general positivity and safety experienced in our classrooms.  Our focus on positive programming, community building, and establishing structures for students to feel seen, heard, recognized, and affirmed has taken hold through the use of restorative practices, classroom meetings, morning and afternoon meetings, student clubs, peer leadership groups, and recognition programs. Now in our third year, we will maintain our PBIS efforts and build on them. We are continuing our work with student clubs on leadership and team work, restorative practices, skill building groups, and using data to better support areas of our school community that surface as trends in need.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330124792|Aspire Juanita Tate Academy Charter|6|1. The disaggreated results of the survey show that the majority of students feel safe at school (79%) and feel that they belong (79%).  Within the total population, we have a larger percentage of SWD who feel safe at school and also feel that they belong.  However, we decreased as a school, overall. The subgroup that shows the smallest percentage are our students who are ELs.  One challenge that comes to mind is the authentic integration of our newcomers who have limited English proficiency.  2. One action we have taken in response to the results include a series of parent workshops that focus on building a partnership with our families of ELs.  We have also continued to integrate more literature into the classroom that is more representative of the group we of students we are serving.  We will see the results in our student survey data.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330114884|Aspire Junior Collegiate Academy|6|"Overall, the implementation of the planned actions and services were consistent throughout the 18-19 school year. Restorative practices to support school climate and culture was our biggest push throughout the school year. With the hiring and training of staff, we were able to create safe, inclusive, and welcoming learning environments where students felt connected to their school. All staff implemented restorative practices inside and outside of the classroom, which supported our low number of students recorded on OnCourse as Failure to serve as assigned. Previously the use of OnCourse was not implemented with fidelity, this year we made sure to support staff in using OnCourse and then the administrative team was able to utilize data to make adjustments and address behaviors. The use of reporting onto OnCourse has been consistent this year and has been normed across the JCA campus .  Overall, the effectiveness of the planned actions and services were noticeable during 18-19 school year. Restorative practices to support school climate and culture was our biggest push throughout the school year. This is evident by the increase in the percentage rate of student responses on the Panorama Student Survey. During the 17-18 school year only 74% of students stated they felt positive school affiliation, felt safe, and secure on campus. This school year 18-19 JCA increased by 5% and were only 1% from our expected goal of 80%. JCA received a facility score of 4, that increased from the previous score of 3.  There is opportunity for growth in increasing JCA’s ADA. JCA had an expected goal of 97% or greater; our ADA score was 96.47%. To address this need we are going to increase parent engagement at the beginning of the school year and increase parent incentives for student attendance.  There is also opportunity for growth in collecting student behavior data. This upcoming school year JCA will ensure that proper training in utilizing OnCourse is provided to all staff. OnCourse will be used with fidelity; the expectations of usage will be clear and streamlined across JCA|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39686760118497|Aspire Langston Hughes Academy|6|We at LHA notice that some students, particularly from the Latinx community, do not have the same level of connectedness with school as we would have predicted. We notice that our staffing does not fully reflect the student population we serve. We also notice that there are opportunities for student celebration to be prioritized. LHA has begun offering affinity groups, including Black Student Union, PEACE, and MEChA. Our school is also creating more opportunities to celebrate, including Town Hall rallies, dances, and lunch time affiliation activities.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612590130666|Aspire Lionel Wilson College Preparatory Academy|6|Our disaggregated results show that our African American students have a much lower sense of belonging than the rest of our students.  On the whole, however, the sense of belonging at our school is very low.  Our school historically has been driven by the relationships long standing staff members have built with families over time.  As staff has turned over recently, these long standing relationships have diminished and the school is in the process of developing systems and culture routines to rebuild those connections.  As a school we have prioritized student culture as one of focus areas for the 19-20 school year.  We are working to celebrate students in classrooms, grade level meetings, and school town halls.  We are focusing on our graduate profile competencies to highlight student successes and student growth (independence, excellence, communication/collaboration, etc.).  We are also continuing to work on school safety by exploring facility upgrades, updated procedures and conversations with families and students to continue to refine our welcoming environment. "|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612596117568|Aspire Monarch Academy|6|Based on the data, a sense of connectedness and belonging is a strength at Monarch. Students with disabilities scored just as high as our average (75%) in feeling like they belong at our school. An area for growth is in school safety, with an average of 69% saying they feel safe. Students with disabilities answered that they feel less safe than the average (53%). I am curious about how our African American and non-Latinx scholars are experiencing our school. The data says n/a because of the small number; however I'd like to find a way to measure their responses as well. We are implementing year 2 of RULER, our SEL curriculum, which I think helps with school safety. One of our 3 school priorities is creating and maintaining a safe and inclusive school environment, which we are taking on in several ways--SEL curriculum, Equity professional development, Parent Involvement, and Coaching around Culture of Learning. Our school leadership team also thinks about ways to increase student identity--whether it's through our cultural celebrations, classroom reading materials and projects, etc.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19101990112128|Aspire Ollin University Preparatory Academy|6|As we reflect on our survey data, we noticed that we have stay consistent on our student feeling of belonging (51%) at our school. When it comes to school feeling safe at Aspire Ollin 60% of our students responded favorably. Some of our major strengths are that students feel like their teachers treat students fairly and our families responded favorably to school culture questions (93%).  We have focused on building school culture by providing our staff members with professional development around creating a culture of learning. An area of growth is in students feeling safe at school. We have focused on developing a positive school-wide culture by connecting our all that we do to our Vision, Values, and ESLRS. This year we have started to implement Positive Behavior Supports and Interventions (PBSI) as a way to support student culture. We honor student classroom, academic, and peer interactions through different awards and celebrations. We have also began to create a focused advisory curriculum that focuses on socio-emotional learning. Our advisory lead and counselors have worked on creating a scope and sequence that will focus on developing school culture and socio-emotional needs guided by the RULER curriculum.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330122721|Aspire Pacific Academy|6|47% of students stated that they feel like they belong and 62% of students expressed that they feel safe at APA. This data shows that  our school community needs to be more accepting of students differences, interests, and disabilities that impact social experiences at APA.  To meet this goal, more club options are being created, Admin Team visibility has increased (safety), student-created events that meet the needs of the majority, and diversity training for families, staff, and students will be provided throughout the year.   Changing the mindset of individuals will take intentionality and consistency.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39686760114876|Aspire Port City Academy|6|Overall our SED students feel the most connected at school, while our EL students feel the least connected.  This is most likely due to SED being connected to more than one adult on campus in a meaninful way due to the nature of the services they receive. Overall our SED students feel most safe at school while our EL students feel least safe.  2. We continue to use RULER SEL program TK-5th grade, as well as continue to train staff in restorative practices.  We are including a monthly cultural foci within our academic activites and have school gallary walks so student can share their projects, additionally we celebrate Peace and Unity day across the campus, and celebrate Red Ribbon Week.  Students receive Puma Cards and Core Value awards for exemplary behavior.  In addition our counselor pulls small groups for recess room for students who are having a difficult time socializing during regular recess.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
07617960132100|Aspire Richmond Ca. College Preparatory Academy|6|"The rapid growth of our total school population has presented opportunities and challenges.  In growing our total school population from 348 in 16-17 to 541 in 18-19, we have seen a decline in our overall sense of belonging and safety at school.  As we have grown, we have had the opportunity to hire many new staff members and in that hiring, diversify the adult population to more closely reflect the student population and hired more teachers new to their profession.   In order to address needs to improve students' and families' sense of belonging, we have added an African American Family Affinity Group, have a combination of staff and student led clubs that include La Fuerza, Black Student Union, and Cal Prep Pride, and assembled staff committees with budgets to develop student programming for students with IEPs, English Learners, African American students, and students that identify as LGBTQIA+.  We are approaching the sense of safety at school at the physical, emotional, and psychological levels.  In addressing physical safety, we reviewed our before and after school procedures as well as our emergency procedures and made changes to ensure more effective supervision of the parking lot and safety in common spaces.  For emotional safety, we are continuing to teach SEL explicitly through advisory using the RULER curriculum and Circles.  We also have quiet mindfulness time into the schedule and partner with Mindful Life Project to have tier 1 Mindfulness instruction for grades 6-10 as well as mindfulness small groups as a tier 2 intervention and 2-on-1 mindfulness as tier 3 intervention.  To address psychological safety, we are conducting quarterly cultural rounds where families, students, and staff conduct observations of the school to assess how well we are living our Core Values and collaboratively identify areas for improvement and suggestions for intervention."|2019-10-03||Met|2019
07617960132118|Aspire Richmond Technology Academy|6|For school connectedness, the majority of scholars at RTA feel that they belong at our school.  EL scholars and African American scholars have the most positive data, whereas Hispanic scholars have the lowest data, though the gap is not too wide.  Scholars feel slightly less safe at school than a sense of belonging, with a 2% difference in the two.  Once again, EL scholars show the highest sense of safety, however, this time African American scholars and Hispanic scholars answered similarly, and lower than ELs or Scholars with Disabilities.  To help us improve in school belonging, we have increased activities during our four different culture/identity months throughout the year (Latinx, Black History, Asian Pacific Islander, and LGBTQ+). We have also increased the work with staff around LGBTQ+, and inclusion of all people on campus.  We are also implementing our RULER SEL curriculum in all classrooms this year, including all four of the anchor practices. Finally, we just had a staff Kid Power PD, in which all staff were trained on how to help scholars be safe and communicate effectively with each other and adults. We project this will help scholars have more tools to interact safely and positively with each other, and seek help appropriately as needed.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39685856118921|Aspire River Oaks Charter|6|Students with disabilities do not feel a sense of belonging and our EL students do not feel safe at school. We are continuing to implement Toolbox strategies in our Tk-1 grades and RULER across the school. We will engage in restorative practices and conversations with all students. Teachers will also be having a "lunch bunch" with their students to build rapport and connections. We do have monthly Core Value Awards given out to deserving students who show exemplary behavior. WE will also be doing Lunch with a Loved One in spring.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39686760108647|Aspire Rosa Parks Academy|6|Our ELLs, SWDs and AA students do not feel as connected as our Hispanic students.  Our Culture and Climate Specialist is training staff in strategies of SEL and PBIS.  We have enacted systems and changed structures to be able to better serve these students when difficulties arise in the classroom.  By doing this students are staying in the classroom more, having 100% access to the CORE and grade level standards.  This helps them to feel connected.  65% of our students feel safe at our school and the variance amongst subgroups is slight.  We have made a conscious effort through multiple actions to increase student's feeling of safety.  Those are continued use of the RULER SEL Program TK-5, use of Morning Meeting in EVERY classroom every day, all staff trained in PBIS strategies, student behavior flow chart created with teachers being able to ask for support for level 2 behavior which does not remove the student from the classroom but provides support in the classroom, monthly core value focus with awards being given each month to students with a note from their teacher informing them of their actions which have earned them the award.  We have begun to see results from many of these actions as student behavior incidents are down and intervention is being implemented early.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330124784|Aspire Slauson Academy Charter|6|78% of students in grades 1-2 feel physical and psychological safety at school per the 18-19 student SEL survey. 67% of students in grades 3-5 indicated feeling a sense of belonging in their classrooms while 58% of students in grades 3-5 felt physical and psychological safety at school per the SEL survey. 63% of students in grade 6 indicated feeling a sense of belonging in their classrooms while 60% of students in grade 6 felt physical and psychological safety at school per the SEL survey. The goal here was to create safe, inclusive, and welcoming learning environments where students attend and are connected to their schools. This year, we continued expanding on our focus with attendance, safe/positive/fun/fair playground, restorative practices, community circles, PBIS, and Slauson Values for classroom management. We built in aligned language across all grades and supported campus supervisors with understanding how to prevent conflict on the playground and how to issue logical consequences when needed to support students with learning about their mistakes. Coupled with our focus on improving attendance by creating attendance support plans, we were able to create a safe and welcoming environment for our community. With that, our Facilities Manager did a phenomenal job of paying close attention to the physical aspects of our building and the proper functioning/safety of all classrooms, meeting spaces, bathrooms, and playgrounds. Moving forward, principal will work closely with Office Manager, Office Assistant, Parent Coordinator, Counselor, and Dean of Culture to develop a cohesive and effective attendance improvement action plan so that Aspire Slauson maintains a 97% ADA or better. Principal will also work closely with two deans of Instruction and the Behavior Intervention Specialist to develop an action plan for strengthening school culture for a safe and civil school environment. School will improve model for CRPBIS, Restorative Practices, Tier I classroom management, and decrease in loss of instructional minutes. The suspension rate in Aspire LA will decrease by 25%, and restorative practices will be in place in 100% of schools. 80% of students will feel positive school affiliation, safe, and secure, as measured by the Student and Family Surveys.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
50710430112292|Aspire Summit Charter Academy|6|Our Hispanic students and students with disabilities do not feel a sense of belonging or safe at school This year, are fully implementing SEL across all aspects of our school and have beefed up our PBIS to create more opportunities for positive behavior supports.  We have also brought back College Rally days to build positive school culture and joy.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647330120477|Aspire Titan Academy|6|1. The disaggregated results of the survey show that the majority of students feel safe at school at 86%.  79% of students also feel like they belong at our school.  This is strong data.  We can also see that the students that feel less safe and less connected are our students with IEPs.  That is a growth area for us.  Our English Learners are also less than the overall school, but slightly less.  Since this survey is also not given with accommodations or many checks for understanding, I am curious about the ways that students are understanding these questions.  2.  This year, one of our large focus areas is special education.  Inclusion is one of our goals since our sped population has increased significantly.  In the previous year, we aimed to increase social emotional learning and we did increase it on student surveys.  The goal is to support new teachers to support belonging and safety in thier classrooms.  We have invested in more coaching for teachers so that they can have classrooms where all students feel safe and like they belong at school.  We have also increased professional development on students with special needs.  We will see the results on this year's student survey data.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
01612590130732|Aspire Triumph Technology Academy|6|Based on the data the majority of our students feel safe at Triumph and there are not major differences among subgroups.  The data shows that fewer of our students feel connected, and there is a wide gap between our students with disabilities, our African American students, and our school overall.  To help students feel more connected we have created more school-wide programs, spirit days, family events, and have revamped our student leadership program.  We have a school-wide focus on respect, and in internal surveys there has been a 50 point increase in the percent of students who share students are respectful to others compared to last year.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
50711670137265|Aspire University Charter|6|Our African American students do not feel a sense of belonging or safe at school.   Kim Wardally, an African American teacher on our campus, has started a BSU for our school community as well as the Vanguard school community. The organization is focused on Black Excellence as a priority.  We have also implemented school wide PBIS this year and have a continued focus on SEL PD.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
50711750120212|Aspire Vanguard College Preparatory Academy|6|Survey data related to students' perception of school safety and connectedness illuminated an overall need to enhance the school climate.  Students with disabilities and African American students indicated a disproportionately lower sense of connectedness; African American students indicated a disproportionately lower sense of safety.  English Learners indicated a higher-than-average sense of safety.  To address the overall need, we have hired a school supports manager as well as three additional campus monitors.  We have begun a multi-year rollout of PBIS, and we have begun weekly "pride time" rallies for students.  To better serve our students with disabilities, we have undertaken a year-long sequence of professional development for GE teachers and education specialists, with a focus on standards-aligned instruction for diverse learners.  To better serve our African American students and their families, we have supported the start-up of a Black Student Union organization that aims to build a sense of belonging and provide a venue for affirmation and advocacy .|2019-10-03||Met|2019
39685856116594|Aspire Vincent Shalvey Academy|6|In looking at the data over-all 70% of our students at Vincent Shalvely Academy fell a sense of belonging. Students with disabilities and African American students indicate a disproportionately lower sense of connectedness. Our hispanic population showed a favorable 80% connected. Our data also showed that over-all 80% of our students feel a sense of safety and again our lowest indicator was that of students with disabilities and African American scholars. Our EL learners feel a stronger sense of safety over connectedness. Actions we have taken is the continued and a deeper dive into our social emotional learning through our Tool Box curriculum as well as RULER curriculum.  We have hired additional campus/recess coaches to over-see/implement games and inclusion through our Playworks training and playbook. We have also hired a dean of students who directly works with groups of students to help them with social skill/connectedness and friendships.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19753090127100|Assurance Learning Academy|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  96% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  98% reported that they felt connected to the school *  95% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
40687000000000|Atascadero Unified|6|Atascadero Unified School District annually administers a local survey to parents, teachers and students in grades 4-12.  Results showed an increase in the positive perception of all areas surveyed.  In areas pertaining to school climate, behavior, safety, and school connectedness an average increase of 4.5% was seen across the sections.  Parents reported a 7% increase and students reported a 3% increase in the feeling that rules are enforced equally across their schools, a 4% increase in the perception that each school has a positive behavior system in place that is working, and a 5% increase in feeling safe on campuses.   AUSD chose to give a local survey that aligned with the California Healthy Kids Survey in order to provide annual information across all students, staff, and parents in grades 4-12 to gather more information on a more regular basis than the semi-annual survey that only surveys 4 grades of students within the district.  The questions and findings directly relate to the three goals established within our Local Control and Accountability Plan.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
34674470133975|Atkinson Academy Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
24656310000000|Atwater Elementary|6|In the spring of 2019 the Atwater Elementary School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to all 5th and 7th grade students within the district, and to all parents in the district.  The survey is designed to elicit responses related to the student's and parent's feelings of school engagement and supports, school safety, disciplinary environment, and lifetime substance abuse.  Additionally, the district administered a local survey in the spring of 2019 with questions directly related to tracking progress on areas surveyed in the previous year through the California Healthy Kids Survey that are also measured in our Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP).  In the spring of 2019, the following was found through the California Healthy Kids Survey:  an average of 67% of students feel a high level of school connectedness, an average of 81.5% of students feel strong academic motivation at school, 67.5% of students feel that there are caring adults on campus who foster good relationships, 82% of students feel that they are held to high expectations, 36.5% of students feel that they are allowed to provide meaningful participation to their school, 71.5% of students feel safe at school most or all of the time, 43% of students have been pushed or hit at least once, 46% of students have had rumors spread about them at least once, 42.5% of students have been called a name or have been bullied at least once, 13% have seen a weapon at school, 53% feel that students are well behaved, 56% feel that they are treated fairly when they break the rules, 82% feel that students are treated with respect, 9.5% have used alcohol or drugs, and 1% have used cigarettes.  In response to this survey, in the area of school safety, which was an area of need, AESD has implemented yearly bullying presentations and the addition of an anonymous bully reporting system on all school websites.  There are also anonymous bully boxes at each school to help students report incidents of bullying.  Schools also perform monthly ALICE drills and have formal evacuation practices.  In the area of disciplinary environment, schools track discipline information and data through their PBIS system and implement school supports to reduce discipline.  Key schools have also partnered with the Restorative Justice League to instill restorative practices within our older students. School Engagement and Supports have been increased through district programs that include students in high interest activities like after school clubs, intramural sports, and visual and performing arts.  Lifetime substance abuse is targeted through presentations at the 4th, 6th, and junior high levels as well as a focused week (Red Ribbon Week) that advocates a drug free life. The local survey administered in spring of 2019 saw positive increases in all areas.  The California Healthy Kids Survey will once again be administered in the 2020-21 school year for reflection on growth or reduction from 2018-19 numbers.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
31667870000000|Auburn Union Elementary|6|Auburn Union Elementary School District continually seeks input from all stakeholders, including students. Each year students take a  Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) survey.  In addition to the LCAP survey, 5th-grade students also take the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS).   Results of the CHKS indicate moderate levels of school connectedness among students, high levels of academic motivation. Students also indicated feeling safe,  having access to caring adults at school and that there are high expectations.  Fewer than 50% of students indicated they were given a chance to help decide activities or rules.  Students also indicate they feel safe at school most of the time.   Results of the LCAP survey indicate 81% of participants feel school is safe, 79% responded all staff members treat students with care and respect,  78% feel there are clear consistent rules.   In order to achieve high student outcomes, LCAP actions and services include designing a plan for implementation of Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) to provide for students academically, socially, emotionally, and behaviorally. Specifically, the Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) system and the Toolbox Curriculum are being utilized to accomplish this work.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
37683383731395|Audeo Charter|6|Audeo administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of Audeo’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of Audeo’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, Audeo has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, Audeo exceeded this metric. 98% of students reported that they felt safe at Audeo and 99% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at Audeo. Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 Audeo’s suspension rates are 0% and expulsion rates are 0% . These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
37770320134577|Audeo Charter II|6|Audeo II administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of Audeo II’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of Audeo II’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, Audeo II has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, Audeo II exceeded this metric. 94% of students reported that they felt safe at Audeo II and 100% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at Audeo II. Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 Audeo II’s suspension rates are 0% and expulsion rates are 0%. These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37681060137034|Audeo Charter School III|6|Audeo III administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of Audeo III’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of Audeo III’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, Audeo III has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, Audeo III exceeded this metric. 98% of students reported that they felt safe at Audeo III and 100% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at Audeo III. Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 Audeo III’s suspension rates are 0% and expulsion rates are 0%. These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
01100170137448|Aurum Preparatory Academy|6|We are in our second year of operation this year and plan to administer this survey in the Spring.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19648810113464|Aveson Global Leadership Academy|6|Students at Aveson have voice and ownership in their educational experience.  In this learner-centered environment, students are expected to be social leaders on campus and in their communities.  Currently there are many students who take ownership of and contribute to the physical, socioemotional and intellectual safety of others.  However, Aveson needs to ensure all students acquire and exhibit social leadership skills resulting in the highest good of all members of the school community.  All staff at Aveson will model, explicitly teach and set clear expectations for students as social leaders.   A survey will be administered to students to allow self reporting on the types of activities and number of times students view themselves as social leaders.  The data from the survey will be analyzed by staff and student leadership teams to determine actions steps to increase opportunities and expectations for social leadership.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19648810113472|Aveson School of Leaders|6|Students at Aveson have voice and ownership in their educational experience.  In this learner-centered environment, students are expected to be social leaders on campus and in their communities.  Currently there are many students who take ownership of and contribute to the physical, socioemotional and intellectual safety of others.  However, Aveson needs to ensure all students acquire and exhibit social leadership skills resulting in the highest good of all members of the school community.  All staff at Aveson will model, explicitly teach and set clear expectations for students as social leaders.   A survey will be administered to students in grades 3-5 to allow self reporting on the types of activities and number of times students view themselves as social leaders.  The data from the survey will be analyzed by staff and student leadership teams to determine actions steps to increase opportunities and expectations for social leadership.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19642790000000|Azusa Unified|6|AUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in Spring of 2018. Results serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority 6, School Climate. The overall School Climate Index for schools are as follows: Middle, 291: High, 247. Combined results from the 2018 CHKS administered to grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 reflect the following about school connectedness and safety in AUSD: SCHOOL ENGAGEMENT (Reporting high/moderate)-a) Feeling connected to school 89%; b) Academic Motivation 81%; c) Feeling cared for by an adult at school 85%. SCHOOL SAFETY (Percent Reporting)- a) School Safe or Very Safe 52%; b) Rumors or lies spread about you (Never/some 0-1) 82%; c) Saw a weapon (gun, knife, club, other) at school (Never/some 0-1) 83%; d) Been hit/pushed Elementary (Never/some) 88%; e) Called bad names or mean jokes made about you Elementary (Never/some) 85%; f) Experienced any at school harassment or bullying Secondary 28%; g) Been afraid of being beaten up 16%; h) Been in a physical fight Secondary 13%. Data was developed from AUSD’s “CHKS Main Report” for both Elementary and Secondary levels- data reported in Core Module Results. Differences in student perceptions of connectedness and school safety exist between grade levels- an ongoing trend districtwide, statewide, and nationwide. Elementary and middle grade students report higher levels of connectedness and safety compared to high school students. A low percentage of 9th and 11th grade students report that they are afraid of being beaten up, have been in a physical fight, and have experienced harassment/bullying. The responses indicate few students have fear of physical or emotional attacks at school. Interesting to note, when asked to respond with their perception of school safety, a little less than half of these students report their school is safe or very safe. Trends showing students are feeling less safe, even though not necessarily experiencing unsafe conditions, have continued since the last administration of the CHKS and are understandable in light of national perceptions of school safety. Parent and staff perceptions of safety remain at high levels. AUSD has made progress in increasing students’ sense of safety on campuses. Similar questions regarding students’ sense of safety are asked annually on the District Annual Survey; results show a 17% increase in students feeling safe from 17-18 to 18-19.  In response to the data from both surveys, AUSD made changes in LCAP actions to address school safety, these have contributed to the increase in student safety measures. For example, ALICE training and anti-bullying curriculum were implemented. Through the 18-19 LCAP Student Advisory Committee, students indicated they felt safer and were more aware of district emergency plans which contributed to the growing sense of safety. We are pleased with our growth in this area, the district intends to continue engaging students regarding their perceptions of school safety.|2019-10-15|For a detailed report on Azusa Unified School District's Local Indicators, please go to azusa.org/lcap|Met|2019
43694270131995|B. Roberto Cruz Leadership Academy|6|DATA :  Demographics 86% identified themselves as Latinos/Hispanics 8% as African-Americans <1% identified themselves as White 5% declined to state.  Student Services The survey reflected that students were receiving the following services: ELLs 29% Reduced/Free lunch 64% Special Education 9% Counseling 4% 504/accommodations 3% Athletics 13% Clubs 13% Bus passes 40%. Level of Instruction 96% of respondents stated that they were either very satisfied or satisfied with the level of instruction students were receiving from their teachers. School Climate 93% reported that they were very satisfied or satisfied with the school’s efforts to maintaining and/or increasing student attendance and involving students in school activities. 97% stated they felt the campus was safe/very safe.  College Preparedness 79% of respondents reported that they expect their student to attend a 4-year college; 13% reported they would attend a Junior College, 4% reported that their student would join the work force, and 2% stated they would join the military, immediately upon graduation. 41% of parents stated that they were aware of the college entrance requirements, while 58% reported that they were not aware. 83% reported that they were able to meet with their student’s counselor to ensure that the appropriate were being taken for college admission.  87% agreed that parents and students have regular access to counselors.  30% reported that they were aware of scholarship availability and understood how to apply for financial aid.  70% reported that they were not aware. Ability to Access and Utilize the Student Information System 16% use it frequently 21% use it on occasion 34% did not know about it 26% do not use it Textbooks, facilities and credentialed teachers 97% indicated that the school provides the appropriate number of textbooks and learning materials, as well as a well-maintained school, and appropriately credentialed teachers. 3% did not indicate. Assessments/Evaluation When asked about the school using a variety of methods to assess Outcomes, participants reported the following: 14% totally aware 34% aware 33% somewhat aware 11% not aware Stakeholder Engagement 96% indicated that parental involvement was encouraged and found the school communication to be informative. Suggestions stakeholders indicated a desire for increased communication from the school and a desire for communication to be more timely. Parents suggested the need to improve campus safety.  In some cases, parents were concerned about blind spots on campus and in others the need for additional security staff to effectively monitor the campus.  While pleased by the level of safety within the building, there were concerns that exterior monitoring could use additional support.  Need for additional student support in areas where students are not doing well. Provide programs to help students pass the college entrance exam (ACT/SAT) Need for additional student voice in decision making process (Cont.)|2019-10-30|MEANING: The stakeholder survey makes clear that while families are generally happy at RCLA, there are still areas of growth that remain and need to be addressed.  These are areas of expanded student support, improved supervision and student safety, and improved communication with families.  USE :  Based on stakeholder feedback from the survey, RCLA is committing to make the following improvements for the upcoming 19-20 academic year :  More regular communication with families through D and F policy.  (New parent communication policy between teachers and families has been implemented as of October 2019) Multiple times a year mailing assessment data to all families so that they are better informed of their children’s performance and progress. (first mailing with go out at the end of October) Work to establish a tutoring center for additional academic support and ability to work on homework with guidance. (Tutoring Center exists on all campuses as of October 21st, first sessions began on October 3rd) Establish an Office Hours policy to make outside-of-class-support more predictable for families and students. Hire additional security staff to better monitor campus. (additional security staff have been added as of October, 2019) Increase the amount of cameras to eliminate monitoring blind spots on campus.  (additional cameras have been added to RCLA’s campus as of October 2019)|Met|2019
36738580000000|Baker Valley Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
15633210000000|Bakersfield City|6|Bakersfield City School District (BCSD) is providing a narrative summary of its progress toward meeting the standard of administering a local climate survey at least every other year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 7th grade students each year. For the purpose of analysis, results from the 18-19 school years were compared to qualitative student perceptions recorded during the same year. The following emerged from the results:  Safety  Analysis: Reduction were seen in the percent of 7th grade students who claimed to have seen a weapon on campus (-11%), being afraid of being beaten up (-6%), experiencing bullying or harassment (-5%), and had mean rumors spread about you (-3%). Though the general perception of feeling safe at school remained roughly the same at 59%.  5th grade results held steady with 71% of students feeling safe. Small reductions were made in violence victimization (-2%), called bad names/mean jokes (-4%), and being hit or pushed (-3%). Qualitative data indicated that the perception of safety was largely impacted by the perceived safety of the community surrounding the school related to shootings and violence. Barriers: Trauma and violence within the community was identified as a barrier to safety Suggested Actions: Continued to bolster student support and safety personnel to address safety concerns.  Further implement social-emotional learning curriculum and other strategies to address negative behavior and bullying.     Connectedness  Analysis: School connectedness remained relatively the same for 7th (59%) and 5th (69%) grades. 7th grade scores are disaggregated by ethnicity. African American students reported significantly higher levels of caring adults (69%) in school than other student groups.  The same was true for perception of total school support. In 5th grade a deeper analysis revealed that perceptions of school connectedness were greatly influenced by 56% of students not feeling close to people at school and 31% of students not feeling like they were a part of the school; both elevated from the previous year.   Barriers: Qualitative data indicated that students would like to see more activities and school spirit, with increased kindness and greater student voice. Suggested Actions: Specific actions were taken this year to increase the professional development and student voice related to anti-bullying. Further implementation of social-emotional learning curriculum is needed to address concerns related to kindness.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19642870000000|Baldwin Park Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
42691040000000|Ballard Elementary|6|Ballard School administers a school climate survey annually to all students in the 3rd - 6th grades. (Ballard is a K-6th school and district.) The survey is aligned with the district's LCAP goals. The student climate survey was developed in-house with the support of the Santa Ynez Valley Youth Coalition.  In 2018-19 100% of the students participated in the survey. (continued below)|2019-10-17|The survey measures student perceptions of safety and connection to the school, and provides the opportunity for open-ended feedback. Results of the survey continue to indicate a strong school culture (>95% feel happy at school, <3% feel bullied at school). We have used the survey results to establish character development programs for the school (Buckefillers).|Met|2019
24656496025381|Ballico-Cressey Community Charter|6|School Climate Survey was given to 1st through 8th-grade students.  Data Collected 1. How safe do you feel at school? 80.9% feel safe or very safe 2. How well do you feel you are being prepared for the next grade level and for your future? 75.8 Feel prepared or Very Prepared 3. How strongly do you agree or disagree with this statement?: “I receive appropriate interventions (help) and / or enrichments to support my learning? 78.3% agree 4. There are lots of opportunities to get involved in different activities during and after school? 58.9% Feel there are additional opportunities. 5. How often do you use technology in the classroom to support learning? 93.5% use technology everyday on a regular basis 6. How often in class do you discuss common core standards (what we are learning) and why they are important? 70.1% say always 7. How strongly do you agree with the following statement?: “I feel connected to my school (It is important to me and feels like family)”. 70.6% agree or strongly agree 8. How comfortable do you feel in sharing concerns with an adult staff member? 55.5% agree or strongly agree 9. I feel like the adults at school care about me and want to see me succeed. 79.3% agree or strongly agree 10. How positive is your school culture? (school culture refers to the way teachers, staff, and students work together and the set of beliefs and values they share) 77% positive or extremely positive 11. What types of challenges do you face that affect your learning? Specific content or content standards, digital curriculum platforms 12. What types of programs, services, or resources would best support your educational experience? Apps and websites, use of cell phones,  13. What is the best thing about being a student at Ballico Cressey? REading, science, computers, friendships  Meaning Overall the majority of students feel safe, supported and encouraged at school by the adults that are on campus. Students, however, would like more after school opportunities. About half the student population are not comfortable with going to adults and sharing their problems or concerns.  Use: The charter is working with staff and the community to try to offer additional activities for students beyond sports and Taiko. The Charter recognizes that there are fewer opportunities for students in the lower elementary grades. The Charter is working with Learning Tree and creating a school-wide MTSS plan to address SEL and build relationships between students and adults on campus.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
24656490000000|Ballico-Cressey Elementary|6|School Climate Survey was given to 1st through 8th-grade students.  Data Collected 1. How safe do you feel at school? 80.9% feel safe or very safe 2. How well do you feel you are being prepared for the next grade level and for your future? 75.8 Feel prepared or Very Prepared 3. How strongly do you agree or disagree with this statement?: “I receive appropriate interventions (help) and / or enrichments to support my learning? 78.3% agree 4. There are lots of opportunities to get involved in different activities during and after school? 58.9% Feel there are additional opportunities. 5. How often do you use technology in the classroom to support learning? 93.5% use technology everyday on a regular basis 6. How often in class do you discuss common core standards (what we are learning) and why they are important? 70.1% say always 7. How strongly do you agree with the following statement?: “I feel connected to my school (It is important to me and feels like family)”. 70.6% agree or strongly agree 8. How comfortable do you feel in sharing concerns with an adult staff member? 55.5% agree or strongly agree 9. I feel like the adults at school care about me and want to see me succeed. 79.3% agree or strongly agree 10. How positive is your school culture? (school culture refers to the way teachers, staff, and students work together and the set of beliefs and values they share) 77% positive or extremely positive 11. What types of challenges do you face that affect your learning? Specific content or content standards, digital curriculum platforms 12. What types of programs, services, or resources would best support your educational experience? Apps and websites, use of cell phones,  13. What is the best thing about being a student at Ballico Cressey? REading, science, computers, friendships  Meaning Overall the majority of students feel safe, supported and encouraged at school by the adults that are on campus. Students, however, would like more after school opportunities. About half the student population is not comfortable with going to adults and sharing their problems or concerns.  Use: The district is working with staff and the community to try to offer additional activities for students beyond sports and Taiko. The Charter recognizes that there are fewer opportunities for students in the lower elementary grades. The District is working with Learning Tree and creating a school-wide MTSS plan to address SEL and build relationships between students and adults on campus. Because the district houses TK and K, the survey was given orally by teachers and was asked in a shortened/easier format for the students to understand and answer.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
13631230118455|Ballington Academy for the Arts and Sciences|6|Findings Reported:  PARTICIPATION RATE: BAAS – El Centro administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 4 & 6.  A total of 54 students participated and completed the survey, an overall 76% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings:  In the area of school connectedness: • 90% of grade 4, and 91% grade 6 students stated they are happy to be at BAAS – El Centro.  • 76% of grade 4, and 74% grade 6 students stated they feel safe at the school most/all of the time.  • 87% of grade 4, and 69% grade 6 students stated they feel they are part of the school most/all of the time.   In the area of caring adults: • 68% of grade 4, and 60% grade 6 students stated that teachers and other adults at the school make an effort to get to know them, most/all of the time.   In the area of Meaningful Participation at School: • 79% of grade 4, and 43% grade 6 students stated that teachers and other adults at the school give students a chance to solve school problems.   In the area of social and emotional learning: • 82% of grade 4, and 82% grade 6 students agreed that “the school helps students resolve conflicts with one another,” most/all of the times.  • 96% of grade 4, and 100% grade 6 students agreed that “the school teaches students to care about each other and treat each other with respect,” most/all of the time.  • 96% of grade 4, and 100% grade 6 students agreed that “the school teaches students to feel responsible for how they act,” most/all of the time.   In the area of Clarify of Rules and Fairness: • 100% of grade 4, and 82% grade 6 students agreed that students know what the rules are most/all of the time.   In the area of school responses to bullying: • 97% of grade 4, and 95% grade 6 students agreed that “teachers and other adults make it clear that bullying is not allowed,” most/all of the time.  • 89% grade 4, and 91% grade 6 students agreed that “if you tell a teacher you’ve been bullied, the teacher will do something to help,” most/all of the time.  • 82% of grade 4, and 60% grade 6 students agreed that “students at the school try to stop bullying when they see it happening,” most/all of the time.   The school Principal and school staff will use student survey findings to improve staff and student relationships, further teach problem-solving techniques, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, to provide all students with a positive learning environment. In addition, the Principal and school staff will collaborate to strengthen and inform students of schoolwide policies and procedures, including the school’s core values in order to improve school climate.    Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rate on the CHKS for Spring 2020.|2019-10-18||Met|2019
36678760133892|Ballington Academy for the Arts and Sciences - San Bernardino|6|PARTICIPATION RATE: BAAS – San Bernardino administered an internal student survey, and a total of 50 students in grades 2-4 participated with an overall 83.3% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings: • 84% agree/strongly agree they are not worried about violence at the school.  • 100% strongly agree they have not been cyber-bullied. • 100% agree/strongly agree that if someone is bullied it is easy for them to get help. • 100% agree/strongly agree, “If I come to school upset, my teacher is worried about me.” • 100% agree/strongly agree, “My teacher will not let me give up.” • 90% agree/strongly agree, “My teacher has high expectations of me.”  The school Principal and school staff will use the findings from the student survey to continue to improve staff and student relationships, continue to teach students problem-solving techniques, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment. In addition, the Principal and school staff will collaborate to strengthen and inform students of schoolwide policies and procedures, including the school’s core values in order to improve school climate.    Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rates and implement a research-based survey for the Spring 2020 administration as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-10-18||Met|2019
04613820000000|Bangor Union Elementary|6|A student safe school survey was administered and 80% of students responded that they feel safe at school. Bangor School is implementing PBIS and has BCOE Coordinated District Support training Staff. In addition, BCOE Expanded Learning Support is training the ASES staff.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
33669850000000|Banning Unified|6|Banning Unified School District administered a local climate survey during the 2018-2019 school year to students in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grades. The survey used was the California Healthy Kids Survey(CHK) that was administered in Spring 2019.  The survey provides a valid measure of students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness to the school.  The results of the survey show that overall elementary students feel safe and show that they feel connected to their school. However, that number was lower for secondary students. The findings show that 64% of 5th graders, 45% of 7th graders, 41% of 9th graders, and 47% of 11th graders feel safe at school.  The data also shows that 68% of 5th graders, 47% of 7th graders, 44% of 9th graders, and 50% of 11th graders feel a sense of connectedness to school. When asked if they feel academically motivated at school, 84% of 5th graders, 68% of 7th graders, 68% of 9th graders, and 69% of 11th graders said they were motivated.  The data shows that 65% of 5th graders, 47% of 7th graders, 46% of 9th graders, and 62% of 11th graders feel there is an adult on campus that cares about them.  The elementary schools are doing well in making connections with students and motivating them to do their best.  The adults make them feel safe at school.  An improvement can be made at the secondary level by making students feel more safe and connected.  One way to improve this would be to focus more on the social/emotional learning techniques.  BUSD will continue to measure progress and change in school climate  by issuing another survey on school climate in December and in April. We will include text boxes for students to be able to explain their answers, CHK does not allow free text.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
39684860000000|Banta Elementary|6|Every year students in grades 4-8 are asked to participate in a local climate survey. 95% of students in grades 4-8 responded to the survey conducted in the 2018-2019 school year. Results of the survey indicate: Feel safe at school: 80%, Bullied at school: 57% never, 41% sometimes, 2% always, School is clean and in good condition: 13% agree, My school provides everything I need to learn at school: 98% agree, My school prepares students for future college or career paths: 75% agree. Every other year 7th grade students are administered the California Healthy Kids Survey regarding school connectedness and school safety. The 2017-2018 survey indicates 83% of 7th graders agree or strongly agree that they feel safe in their school and 95% said they feel a high or moderate sense of school connectedness. Results from these surveys have helped the district/school with planning the actions/serivices in Goal 2 (Provide a clean, healthy, physically and emotionally safe learning environment, in which all students can learn.) of the annual LCAP. By implementing actions/services in Goal 2 of the annual LCAP, overall students feel safer at school but instances of being bullied has increased, the Anti-Bullying intervention/prevention program will need to be reevaluated to decrease instances of bullying.  Surveys also indicate that only 13% percent of students agree that the school is clean and in good condition.  The district continues to evalutate the cleanliness and condition of its school and as a result of surveys the schools maintenance department has been restructured to better maintain the school facilities.|2019-10-10|Annual surveys will continue to help improve the climate of the school and assist in creating and maintaining actions and services in the LCAP to provide a clean, healthy, physically and emotionally safe learning environment, in which all students can learn.|Met|2019
19765470118760|Barack Obama Charter|6|DATA: Barack Obama Charter School (BOCS) administered the Youth Truth survey to students in 3rd-5th grade during the 2018-2019 school year. Students had two opportunities to take the survey; fall and spring. The survey’s key measurements are Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging and Peer Collaboration and Culture. In the Spring of 2019, BOCS had 84% of the students in those grade levels completed the survey.    Out of the five key measurements, students provided the highest ratings on engagement and relationships. 94% of students strongly agree their teacher wants them to do their very best and 93% of students strongly agree that their teacher wants them to work their hardest. 83% of students feel their teacher cares about them and 75% of students believe their teacher treats them with respect.   Out of the five key measurements, students rated academic rigor and culture lowest. When asked “does what you learn in school help you outside of school?”, 60% of students selected “yes, often”. When asked “does the work in class make you really think?”, 69% of students selected “yes, oftent”. In regards to culture, when asked “Do students in your class treat the teacher with respect?”, 38% responded “yes, very often” and 54% responded “sometimes”. 24% of students agree that students behave well in their class often, while 66% indicated they behave “sometimes”.  MEANING: The survey results reveal that students feel they have strong connections and relationships with their teacher. Students feel supported by their teachers in both how they are doing emotionally but academically as well. This is evidence of teachers understanding the power of relationships and knowing about their students both in and out of school.   Although, students feel supported by teachers and have strong relationships with them, we noticed opportunities to improve connections students make between what they are learning at school and to the real world. Additionally, the data revealed that students feel that other students are not always behaving and having positive interactions towards their teacher or peers. This is an opportunity for improvement for BOCS.  USE: Based on results from the last survey, BOCS implemented school wide behavior expectations and explicitly taught them to all students. School-Wide expectations are continually being taught in classrooms. Additionally, restorative justice (RJ) circles have been built into the master schedule. Students engage in an RJ circle daily. During this time, students are provided opportunities to share with the class how they are feeling and to share about themselves. We have seen an increase of positive student to student interactions since building in this tier 1 support.  BOCS also hired a school-counselor who is doing both small group and individual group counseling. For students in need of on-going and daily support, the counselor is doing morning check-ins before students begin their day.|2019-10-28|This standard was met.|Met|2019
37681896120901|Barona Indian Charter|6|In the Spring of 2018 BICS administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey .  Data regarding the school environment was collected and analyzed for the following areas:  *Developmental Supports-The vast majority of students and families believe that the school is successful in differentiating to meet the needs of individual learners.   * School Connectedness-  The vast majority of students and families felt as if they or their students had a strong sense of belonging at the school.  All students  reported the teachers cared about their learning.  * School Safety- The large majority of students reported that they felt safe at school at all times.  Less than 5 students reported they felt unsafe or threatened at school. One student reported seeing a weapon at school.   *Alcohol Tobacco & Drugs-  The vast majority of students reported no exposure to drugs, tobacco, or alcohol.  Five students reported they had previously experimented with drugs.    The BICS staff and BICS school board recognize that although survey results were generally positive, we do have a responsibility to always improve the school's climate.  In 2019-2020 the school began a partnership with the Safe School Ambassador program.  This program has empowered students to support one another and take positive action when faced with incidents of intimidation, cruelty, or bullying.  We also recognize the need to promote more channels of communication with our students.  In 2018 we implemented a program we named "Reality Checks" in grades 3-8. All students take a few minutes in class time to fill in a short questionnaire about how they are feeling both in and out of school. Students also have the opportunity to make specific comments to teachers, administration, or counselors. If action is required, the questionnaire with the student's name is passes along to the appropriate staff member.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
36676110000000|Barstow Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered during the 18-19 school year. The participation rate for each grade levels was as follows: 56% fifth grade, 56% seventh grade, and 98% ninth grade students. In effort to enhance the overall learning experience of its students, Barstow Unified School District is focusing on teacher-student relationships, as well as Safety. In elementary schools, 70% of fifth grade students reported that there is a “high number of caring adults at their schools", while 72% said they "feel safe at school". At our secondary (middle and high) schools, 56% of seventh grade students reported that there is a “high number of caring adults" at their schools; Ninth Grade: 51%; Eleventh Grade: 47%. It was also reported on the survey that 82% of 5th graders felt they "were treated with respect" while 29% of 7th graders, and 18% of 9th graders have "been afraid of being beaten up". 5% of 5th graders, 10% of 7th graders and 22% have "witnessed drug or alcohol use on school grounds". Finally, 40% of 7th graders "experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness", and 20% of 9th graders have "considered suicide". Meaning: Across all of our schools in the Barstow Unified School District, it is evident from the data that it is imperative that we improve the social emotional learning and behavioral learning opportunities at all sites. A large number of our students do not feel safe at school and have witnessed or experienced harassment and/or bullying during the school day. School disconnectedness is an area of concern as well. The data reveals that too many students feel a lack of academic motivation and meaningful participation while at our schools. USE: In response to this data, BUSD has included more resources for students in the area of social emotional and behavioral learning. Each elementary school site now has a counselor and are part of a district-wide counseling network. The secondary schools also each have multiple counselors and a peer counselor that helps students help each other through difficult times. As a district, BUSD administers a Positive Behavior Interventions & Supports system. There is a district coach to support school site PBIS coaches with implementation and resources.|2019-10-22|With an emphasis placed on significantly increasing the amount of authentic stakeholder voice in the 2019-20 LCAP, extensive analysis of the feedback by site and district leadership resulted in a modification of the existing goal. While expanding community-wide awareness and support of student achievement remains important based on the data, increasing effective communication to all stakeholder groups (including students), engaging all stakeholders more authentically, and responding to the collective thoughts of the Barstow learning community are essential to ensure the success of all students and the realization of district and community outcomes.|Met|2019
20651850000000|Bass Lake Joint Union Elementary|6|The District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey annually to its fifth and seventh grade students. The most recent survey was conducted during the 2018-19 school year.   Among the key findings was students overwhelmingly feel safe at their school site, feel connected to their school, have caring adults at their school who have high expectations for their students, and appreciate the level of care and upkeep of the physical school sites. Students also believe their school has a strong anti-bullying culture. Students overwhelmingly believe they are treated fairly and with respect by the adults at the schools. No fifth grade student reported alcohol, drug, tobacco, or e-cigarette usage, but seventh graders did report usage. Their usage ranged from alcohol, tobacco, and e-cigarettes, to marijuana. Equally alarming was a significant number of seventh graders reported they have felt chronically depressed or sad, while ten-percent of respondents at Oak Creek Intermediate said they had contemplated suicide previously with another 17% of Wasuma Elementary respondents also reported having considered suicide.  The data shows that District schools are well-kept and are considered safe by students. Students feel safe when they are at school and consider themselves to be well-connected to their schools and the adults who work there. Data also shows the need for additional social-emotional supports in schools with significant numbers of students reporting depression, sadness, and thoughts of suicide.   The District continues to increase social-emotional services for its students and staff. Staff is currently being trained in trauma informed practices. Additional PBIS Tier 2 paraeducator positions were added for 2019-20 so that each site has such staff in place to provide intervention and support for students. School and District leadership continue to provide suicide prevention training to staff and students alike, as well as alcohol, drug, tobacco, and e-cigarette education. The District is entering into community partnerships with local health care providers and county health departments to support students and families with counseling services and health-related supports. The District also added additional Tier 3 counseling support services in 2018-19, and added an additional five hours per week for such services for 2019-20, in part as a result of student responses.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19642950000000|Bassett Unified|6|The Basset Unified School District administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey core module in the Fall of 2018 to students in all required grade spans; specifically, Grade 5, 7, 9, 11 and to students that attend continuation high school.  A survey window was identified and electronic devices were provided to students to complete the survey online.  School Climate and Student Well-Being/School Engagement & Supports School Connectedness Gr 5 = 72%  Gr 7 = 61%  Gr 9 = 49%  Gr 11 = 47% Cont. HS = 53% Academic Motivation Gr 5 = 86%  Gr 7 = 69%  Gr 9 = 68%  Gr 11 = 66% Cont. HS = 67% Caring adult relationships Gr 5 = 75%  Gr 7 = 61%  Gr 9 = 45%  Gr 11 = 55% Cont. HS = 70% Meaningful Participation Gr 5 =41%  Gr 7 = 24%  Gr 9 = 23%  Gr 11 = 25% Cont. HS = 36% Facilities upkeep Gr 5 = 70%  Gr 7 = 37%  Gr 9 = 35%  Gr 11 = 34% Cont. HS = 63%  School Safety Feel safe at school/school perceived as very safe or safe Gr 5 = 77%  Gr 7 = 59%  Gr 9 = 41%  Gr 11 = 48% Cont. HS = 59% Saw a weapon at school/on campus Gr 5 = 72%  Gr 7 = 61%  Gr 9 = 49%  Gr 11 = 47% Cont. HS = 53%   Overall, there are similar findings for grade 5, 7, and 11 males and females in high levels of school connectedness; however, in grade 9 and for students in continuation high school there is a difference in findings for males and females.  Grade 9: 53% males and 45% females report high levels of school connectedness, while continuation high school students 47% males and 65% females report high levels of school connectedness.     There are similar findings for grade 5 male and females with regard to feeling safe at school (75% male and 78% female).  Grades 7 and 11 also report similar findings between males and females (Gr 7: 62% males and 56% of females feel very safe or safe at school and Gr 11: 45% males and 52% females feel very safe or safe at school).  However; in grade 9, only 46% males and 36% females feel very safe or safe at school.   The disaggregated results indicate that within the past year, much progress has been made in the areas of school connectedness and caring adult relationships.  School safety at the elementary and middle school data indicates a majority of students feel safe while at school.  Areas of growth and focus for BUSD are the following: Caring adult relationships at the high school level, feeling safe at the high school level, meaningful participation at all grade levels, as well as facilities upkeep at all grade levels.|2019-10-22|BUSD has actively addressed school connectedness and school safety throughout the year.  Partnerships with outside stakeholders has supported these efforts; in particular, a No Bully/Shred Hate partnership with MLB and ESPN has provided teacher training, student assemblies with a LA Dodger guest speaker, and student lessons in kindness and caring for fellow classmates.  Additionally, being selected by LACOE as one of ten districts to participate in the Community Schools Initiative will bring much needed resources to support student well-being at the secondary level.|Met|2019
01612590106906|Bay Area Technology|6|BayTech administered several surveys during the 2018-2019 school year, including one that went out to all families. Some of the main takeaways regarding school climate are as follows: students feel very safe at BayTech and most believe that our staff is able to help them if they are in need. Many feel very connected to their peers and staff, but there is some room for improvement in this category.  Most of the survey results are similar even when broken down by grade, race, and gender. Because of the small size of the school, some categories have a small number of respondents, so we are cautious to read too much into slight differences in responses. We will continue to monitor results of upcoming surveys to determine if there are differences across student groups.  BayTech has made several large structural changes for the 2019-2020 school year, many of which were the result of the surveys. Changes include a new rotating block bell schedule, new supplemental “Reading Periods” and “Eagle Periods,” several new classes, a new food service, an updated dress code, and a new SELPA. We have received a very strong positive response on an anecdotal level, and we look forward to gather more data during surveys in the spring.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
27102720124297|Bay View Academy|6|A school climate survey was administered to 3rd-8th graders during the 2018-19 School year. We had 306 responses which drove our LCAP goal setting process for this year. Bay View Academy will continue to address the needs of the whole child by continuing to have full time counselors to support student's social- emotional growth. In 2019-20 we will be expanding the support we offer to students by contracting with CSUMB's Department of Social Work to place interns on the BVA campus. Additionally, we will begin to explore aligning to a Multi-Tierred System of Support framework to deepen our commitment meeting and identifying the needs of our students. The 2019-20 school year will mark the first phase of implementation of the national Social Justice Standards published by the Southern Poverty Law Center's Teaching Tolerance program.|2019-05-21||Met|2019
33769430132522|Baypoint Preparatory Academy|6|BPA conducts an annual 3-12th grades student survey. The 2018-19 comprehensive survey captured a valid measure of students' perceptions of Baypoint's safety and connectedness. The results indicated favorable ratings averaging at 80%.   Considering the results, Baypoint will continue to ensure a robust and diverse culture building programs that convey and are implemented across all grade levels. According to the stakeholders, the increased effort to implement Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) will provide staff, students, and parents an increase perception of improved safety and well being of All the students during school session/hours. The teachers, staff, and administration are continually seeking opportunities to connect students with the community at large and resources that make learning meaningful. Baypoint has taken several steps to ensure the physical and emotional safety of both students and staff.   Additionally, the Baypont's college and career counselor began monthly classroom SEL education across all grade levels and began the academic year with a serious of topics that support SEL, which emphasize the impact, effects on education.   With additional targeted school-wide surveys, the counselor was able to discover what topics were most relevant to the Baypoint school community. Based on the results, the data were assessed in order to address the needs as requested. All students have access to personal counseling services, which includes a focus on SEL, academic performance, behavior, and career interests. By building personalized relationships, educators are able to partner with other academic departments to further offer support services.  Moreover, internet safety is especially important. Baypoint uses the Go Guardian program and Firewall network security system to ensure that the students are guided to the proper educational materials.  Each month, Baypoint acknowledges and celebrates students' achievements and recognizes students who go above and beyond in their classrooms.|2019-10-28|Baypoint's educational program builds relationships with students based on learning, growth, and continued success. Students' growth is always a priority as each Baypoint department is made available to them and their families.  Of equal importance will be the growth and support of student's social and emotional skills as they matriculate through the various grade levels. Combine with innovative teachers, instructional coaches, and administration, the priority of a safe and positive environment is of the utmost importance.  While the blended learning model stresses independent, consistent and maintained engagement with the entire school community allows for prolonged success.  The commitment to promoting the entire school community as a whole provides advancement for the stakeholders beyond the borders of the school.|Met|2019
37771720138099|Baypoint Preparatory Academy - San Diego|6|BPA-SD requested that staff, parents, and students complete an annual survey in April 2019 to capture perceptions regarding BPA-SD’s school climate and overall satisfaction.   Student survey results indicated that 100% of all students in TK-5th grade felt safe at school. All survey participants in TK-2nd grade felt that BPA-SD staff treated students with respect, while 97% of students in 3rd-5th grade felt that staff cared about them.   All survey participants in 6th grade strongly agreed or agreed that staff and students treat each other with respect. Nearly 90% of 6th grade students felt that they could trust BPA-SD staff when they were facing academic and/or personal issues. The same percentage of students felt that their teacher was available to discuss grades, academic successes, and areas of improvement with the students and parents.   The results from the parent survey showed that approximately 85% of those who participated in the survey strongly agreed that their students felt welcomed, cared for, and safe/secure at school. Of those surveyed, 90% agreed that all parents were provided with opportunities to be involved in the education decision-making process for their students. Nearly 90% of survey participants also strongly agreed that they felt comfortable sharing concerns with staff, and that they were able to receive assistance for their students’ academic needs.   Based on the results from the annual survey, BPA-SD has encouraged staff to continue to build strong relationships with each student and their family through regular communication. BPA-SD administration has provided Orientation/Meet the Teacher events to ensure the academic year begins with a positive connection where the school’s mission, expectations, and policies are reviewed. Fall conferences are mandatory for all families to attend, at which time teachers review academic progress, goals for the year, share successes and address questions/concerns that parents might have regarding their student.|2019-10-28|While the 2018-2019 school year was BPA-SD’s first year of operation, the survey results indicated that the school’s dedication to building strong relationships between staff, families, and students was effective. BPA-SD staff met to discuss the findings of the surveys and collaborated on ways to further improve these relationships and perceptions the 2019-2020 school year. Teachers and staff are committed to ensuring that students and their families feel welcomed, safe, and confident in the academic program at BPA-SD.|Met|2019
41688580000000|Bayshore Elementary|6|The Bayshore Elementary School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to all 5th - 8th grade students in the spring of 2017. Our next administration will be the spring of 2019. Analysis: The following percentage of students rated moderate to high on school connectedness: 5th: 97% 6th: 74% 7th: 86% 8th: 89% The following percentage of students rated moderate to high on having caring adults in schools: 5th: 93% 6th: 91% 7th: 88% 8th: 87% The following percentage of students rated moderate to high on adults having high expectations: 5th: 97% 6th: 89% 7th: 87% 8th: 92%. We have also implemented a new annual survey related to Social Emotional Learning for all 3rd - 8th grade students which will be given twice a year, once in late November/early December and again in late April/early May.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
39685930126094|be.tech|6|Be.tech administered the Healthy Kids Survey during the 2017-2018 school year.  The Healthy Kids Survey shows that Be.tech is meeting its goal of ensuring that kids are safe and connected.   75% of surveyed students indicate they agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school.  0% indicated they feel unsafe.  88% of students surveyed indicate that they feel close to people at this school.  75% of students indicate that they feel like they are a part of the school.  67% of students feel highly connected to Be.tech and 33% feel moderately connected. 0% of students report not feeling not connected. 25% of students report that it is pretty much true or very much true that they have a say in how things work.  Be.tech administered Be.tech’s Annual Student Survey in the spring of 2019, for students to self-assess certain aspects of student core learning outcomes and their perceptions of the environment and culture that Be.tech offers.  This survey indicated that 69% of students agreed that the learning and work they do is regarded as significant outside of school by experts, family members, and employers.  67% of students agreed that they are provided with opportunities to contribute to solving the problems in their community and world at large.  Be.tech will continue to focus on advancing the mission of Be.tech as a career technical education academy as well as focusing on MUSD’s targets (grade level standards, safety, and emerging students).|2019-10-08||Met|2019
36676370000000|Bear Valley Unified|6|In 2018-2019, we expanded the Parent Involvement Survey to include questions regarding safety and climate. 82% of the parents responding agreed that the school was friendly environment for students, parents, and families and a safe place to learn. 88% agreed that culture and diversity was respected in the schools and 78% agreed that students are treated fairly and with respect. 85% agreed that if they have questions, the response time was within 24 hours. 83% agreed that the curriculum is challenging and 77% agreed that their child received the academic support needed to be successful. Finally, 90% of parents feel welcome on campus, and 93% agreed that their child(ren) had a connection with one or more adults on campus. Based on input from all stakeholders, an identified need was in the area of Social Emotional Learning. On July 29, an all staff district wide training was held with Keeth Matheny, a national speaker and author on social emotional learning. In addition, social emotional curriculum was purchased and professional development provided to ensure the implementation, TK - 12.  A full time counselor at BBMS runs the Student Assistance Program (SAP) that empowers students to work together. At BBHS, there are two full time counselors and a Drug and Alcohol support counselor.  Cyber Security classes I and II were added for increased student engagement. (LCAP Goal 3 – Increase engagement levels of students, specifically Actions and Services 3.4.)  In TK – 8, enrichment opportunities such as robotics, STEM, Art, Yoga, Coding, Spanish are offered after school with transportation once a week in alignment with LCAP Goal 3) Increase engagement levels of students, specifically Actions and Services 3.7: offering enrichment and/or intervention opportunities at every site.This information was shared with the Governing Board on October 2, 2019 at a regularly scheduled public hearing.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
15633390000000|Beardsley Elementary|6|Beardsley School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey during the 2017-18 school year. School sites administer a school climate and culture survey to parents and students each year in the spring, measuring school climate, safety, and community engagement. -The district disseminates results of the survey and works collaboratively with stakeholder groups including SSC, ELAC, District Advisory, DELAC, and School Board Meetings. Sites implement activities that create a positive school climate through interaction with students of all ages, parents, and staff (ex: Escape rooms, Talent Show, Family Reading, dances, math nights, positive referrals to the office, movie night, Fancy Lunch, and cookies with the principal). -Site specific media stations are used to connect to students daily, where positive messages and assignments are given to assist in students positive involvement on campus. -Admin meets with teachers and students to survey the climate of the site throughout the year to evaluate if more resources need to be used to maintain the positive climate of the school. -Admin and teachers work together using student data to find extra resources and interventions for those individuals who need them to provide help for those struggling students so that they continue to feel comfortable coming to school and negate the negative behaviors that come from feeling lost in the classroom.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
33669930000000|Beaumont Unified|6|During the 2018-19 school year, the Beaumont Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade. In the domain of School Engagement and Supports, on average, 74% of the students reported that they felt connected to the school. In the domain of School Safety, 76% of students reported that they felt there was an anti-bullying climate on their campuses. 79% of students assessed reported that they feel safe at school. 88% of the 5th-graders feel that they are treated with respect by staff members on campus. 14% of 5th-grade students reported experiencing sadness.  In the domain of School Engagement and Supports, on average, 51% of the secondary students reported that they felt connected to the school. 56% of the secondary students feel the adults in the school care about them. At each of the secondary sites, 51% of students assessed reported that they feel safe or very safe at school, and 37% reported that they experienced harassment or bullying in the past 12 months. 50% of secondary students reported experiencing sadness and hopelessness.  In looking at the key indicator of School Engagement and Supports, the elementary students feel more connected to school than the secondary students. A little more than 50% of secondary students feel that adults care about them at school. Elementary students report feeling significantly safer at school than secondary students. Elementary students feel there is an anti-bullying climate that has been developed at the school sites; however, just under 40% of secondary students reported they experienced harassment or bullying within the past 12 months. Mental health is a concern at the secondary level, with 50% of the students reporting that they experience sadness or hopelessness.  To address bullying within the school setting, the Beaumont Unified School District has implemented anti-bullying and harassment policies. Also, an anonymous Anti-Bullying app (Stopit) has been made available for all students grades 2-12. Counseling support has been provided to school sites through a tiered model. Restorative circles, reflection rooms, and Alternative to Suspension have been implemented to address conflict resolution, as well as, student discipline issues. Progressive discipline is used to maintain consistency within each site. To address student substance abuse, site curriculum and additional counseling services have been implemented at the secondary school sites. A School Resource Officer was added to the high school to support the District in addressing student and staff safety concerns. Additionally, a Parent Engagement Coordinator has been added to help support the District's efforts to engage parents in their child's education. The Alternative to suspension and counseling support program has made a positive impact on reducing behavior offenses, addressing absenteeism, and supporting mental health concerns.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647336015986|Beckford Charter for Enriched Studies|6|Beckford Charter administered the 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey the to 3rd – 5th graders during the spring semester.  The participation rate for this survey was 99%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the percentage of students indicating All of the Time and Most of the Time are noted next to the question. • Are you happy to be at this school? 86% • Do you feel like you are part of this school? 85% • Do you feel accepted at this school? 81% • Do you feel safe at this school?  87% • Do adults at this school treat students with respect? -83%|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37684520128223|Bella Mente Montessori Academy|6|In the spring, an elementary and middle school survey was developed for students. The elementary survey was sent to students in grade k-5, the middle school survey was sent to students in grades 6-8. The survey did not collect personal information about the student. Therefore, we are unable to disaggregate the data by unduplicated groups or students with exceptional special needs. The survey results for elementary students shows the vast majority of students (over 93%) feel they can rely on their teachers to always support them. They feel safe at school and feel they are encouraged to do well. Only 66.7% of students felt their good behavior was noticed and recognized and 66.7% felt their peers treated each other well. The survey results for middle school shows the culture of these grade levels needs intervention by school administration. Only 58.1% of students felt they were successful at school. 51.1% of students feel there are clear rules for behavior. 78.2% feel their teachers treat them with respect. 45.5% of students feel the behaviors of their fellow students are limiting how well their teacher can provide instruction. 34.5% of students feel their good behavior was noticed and recognized and only 69.1% of students felt safe at school. 72.7% of students feel they can talk to a teacher on campus if they need help. In response to the survey results, the LEA researched team and community building schoolwide programs. The school Board of Directors selected the Franklin Covey program Leader in Me. Per the creators of the program, Leader in Me, “helps create well-rounded leaders by developing the whole person and preparing students to become life-ready leaders. Leader in Me unites students, staff, and families around a common goal to prepare students with college, career, and life-readiness skills that are necessary to thrive in today’s ever-changing, fast-paced environment, like: critical thinking, social and emotional awareness, teamwork, listening skills, time management, self-directed learning, global awareness, communication, self-discipline and teamwork.”|2019-11-12||Met|2019
45698720000000|Bella Vista Elementary|6|DATA: The vast majority of students felt safe, a sense of belonging, and knew they were cared for by all staff members.   MEANING: Strengths: Students felt safe to take academic risks and have a growth mindset. Challenges: No challenges were identified. Student Barriers: Poverty and limited family education are our biggest barriers. We provide lots of support for our most at-risk students. USE: We analyze data on a consistent basis to identify areas of need. Our focus is always on quality instruction and meeting the needs of each of our students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
55723060000000|Belleview Elementary|6|Belleview administered the Healthy Kids Survey, as well as its own locally developed surveys in 2018-2019.  The locally developed surveys consisted of  1) LCAP Stakeholder Survey administered annually and 2) "Creating a Positive School Climate" administered in 2018-2019 by the Leadership Team to the entire staff.  The Healthy Kids Survey results were shared with the Board in October, and the LCAP survey results were shared with School Site Council, the Board and at the LCAP Community Forum on 4/11/19.  As a result of our data analysis, the following areas are addressed as goals: 1.  Belleview will maintain a school and classroom environment that provides high quality, equitable conditions of learning for each students by offering small class sizes and a well-maintained facility. 2.  All students will meet the State's common core standards in literacy and math.  Students will be assured early literacy and math skills that promote physical, social-emotional, cognitive, academic achievement throughout the K-8 experience. 3.  Equity is at Belleview's core with support for the whole child that includes a positive school environment and a learning climate that incorporates instructional practices that support he academic, social emotional and physical needs of its students. 4.  Students will have the opportunity to participate in art, music, technology and other enrichment programs including field trips and activities for the gifted.  Additional funding was provided to hire aides to support students with academic and behavioral needs.  The music program was replaced by a PE program due to interest and need (according to the State's PFT results).  While the Healthy Kids survey did not indicate many issues, the school is always cognizant of prevention and has planned projects for 2019-2020 that include the "Drugstore Project", a vaping presentation, education on Human Trafficking and HIV/Aids Prevention and Sex ed.  Also, anti-bullying assemblies and a school mission that focuses on kindness and core values.|2019-10-08|Last year, a Leadership Team was formed (comprised of the Board President, Superintendent/Principal, Classroom Teacher and Classified Staff Member.  They administered a survey to the entire staff to get feedback on creating a positive school climate.  Upon analyzing the results, an action plan was determined for 2019-2020 that included welcoming all the new families, mentoring the new staff (10), implementing the FISH Philosophy training in regular monthly meetings and continuing with Responsive Classroom Training.|Met|2019
49706150000000|Bellevue Union|6|Sixth grade students are given an annual online multiple choice survey. A few of the key questions that were looked at related student connectedness were perceptions of leadership and service learning opportunities at the school. In regards to student safety, students were asked about physical safety and their concerns about bullying at their schools. The results will be used to inform future practice.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
40688096043194|Bellevue-Santa Fe Charter|6|The School Climate Survey asks students to reflect on their perception of their "safety" at school.  The majority of BSFCS students report feeling cared for (62.3% Strongly Agree, 27.4% Agree, 7.5% Neutral), feeling safe on our school site (68.9% Strongly Agree, 25.5% Agree, 3.8% Neutral, 1.9% Disagree), doing interesting activities (57.5%% Strongly Agree, 32.1% Agree, 8.5% Neutral, .9% Disagree, .9% Strongly Disagree), having a teacher who provides guidance (84% Strongly Agree, 15.1% Agree), being supported by adults on campus (58.5% Strongly Agree, 27.4% Agree, 12.3% Neutral, 1.9% Disagree), having quality instruction (92.5% Strongly Agree, 5.7% Agree, 1.9% Neutral), and growing in their learning (69.8% Strongly Agree, 22.6% Agree, 6.6% Neutral).  The majority of students also report majority disagreement in having too much homework (32.1% Strongly Disagree, 21.7% Disagree, 19.8% Neutral, 15.1% Agree, 11.3% Strongly Agree).|2019-06-11||Met|2019
19643030000000|Bellflower Unified|6|Goal four of BUSD's LCAP states, "The Bellflower Unified School District will provide all students and staff a healthy, safe, and secure environment that supports learning." Action steps included in the LCAP to ensure meeting this goal include monitoring students' feeling of connectedness and safety at school and their agreement that bullying is not allowed as well as monitoring parents' agreement that students are safe at school. The Healthy Kids Survey is administered yearly at elementary and secondary school sites. The data for the 18-19 school year revealed that 94% of 5th grade students, 89% of 7th grade students, 87% of 9th grade students, and 82% of 11th grade students surveyed feel highly or moderately connected at school. The survey also revealed that 94% of 5th grade students, 81% of 7th grade students, 82% of 9th grade students, and 85% of 11th grade students surveyed report that they are safe at school. This survey also revealed that 90% of elementary students surveyed agree that bullying is not allowed and 92% of parents responding to the survey strongly agree or agree that students are safe at school.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
41688660000000|Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary|6|BRSSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 7th grade students on an annual basis.  In the most recent administration, we have seen that three is a marked decline in student connectedness at the 7th grade level.  There are a number of factors that could have contributed to this decline, and the school administration is working with the staff to boost student connectedness through a variety of actions that include, but aren't limited to: reinstate PBIS; bolster student council and WEB activities; provide implicit bias training for staff; share data and CHKS results with broader base of stakeholders.  At the elementary level, our CHKS data indicate stability and an increase in student connectedness and meaningful participation.  There continues to be a high level of parent engagement and perceived caring adults from the student perspective.    For both our 5th and 7th grade students polled, there is little to no alcohol/drug/tobacco use.  Our students are physically healthy, though there is an increase is student feelings of hopelessness, across both 5th and 7th graders.  As a district, we have increased our supports for students by increasing the amount of counseling available at all levels and bolstering our social emotional learning curriculum and lesson delivery.  Additionally, as we refine our school systems, we are focusing on early intervention as a preventive strategy.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
15633470000000|Belridge Elementary|6|After administering "Healthy Kids Surveys" and a "Local Climate Survey" we began holding monthly Stakeholder Group meetings.   At each stakeholder meeting we reviewed longitudinal data sets including suspension rates, absenteeism, attendance, Smarter Balanced outcomes for ELA & Math, stakeholder engagement opportunities and attendance as well as professional development opportunities for staff over the past three years.  Through our needs assessments, we determined our problem to be a lack of an opportunity to build the capacity of staff over the past few years which has resulted in a lack of students engagement.  We found our suspension rates and absenteeism have increased and our attendance rates have trended downward.  We also found professional development opportunities for staff have been limited due to a lack of funding. After research and consultation, we have determined the following evidence-based interventions will be implemented;  Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports, Latino Family Literacy Project facilitation for parents/families, and Professional development in English Language Arts and Math for staff.|2019-10-08|After discussing the findings from the Surveys with our stakeholder groups, there was a general consensus we will continue working on making sure all stakeholders feel safe/connected to our school in the future.  Therefore, we will continue providing "Parent/Community Involvement Activities" to allow "face to face" meetings and communication regarding concerns/input from all stakeholders.  This will also strengthen the roles of the members of "The Belridge Elementary School District T.E.A.M. (Together Everyone Achieves More)  We are expanding our T.E.A.M. idea even more by incorporating a Positive Behavior Intervention Support Program (P.B.I.S.) this year which includes training for all stateholders (Students/Staff/Parents/Community/Board members)... P.A.W.S.  Practice Citizenship    Act Responsible    Work & Play Safe    Show Respect...  The Panther Way will take you To Infinity & Beyond!|Met|2019
48705240000000|Benicia Unified|6|BUSD administers and analyzes the results of two surveys to assess student, staff and parent perceptions of a variety of aspects of school climate and safety. The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered to students in grades  7, 9, 11 and all students attending our continuation high school. In addition staff at all district schools and parents of all students are requested to complete online surveys. The second survey administered to all secondary students (6-12th grade) is the REACH survey. The survey, developed by the University of Minnesota is based on research regarding youth developmental assets. REACH is an acronym that stands for Relationships, Effort, Aspirations, Cognition, and Heart. Both surveys are analyzed together at both the district and site level to identify areas of targeted strengths and growth. The data is presented to the local governing board and available on the district website.  The data taken together from the two surveys indicate that most of our students (70% in 7th grade feel safe or very safe at school. The percentages drop slightly for high school with 63% and 65% respectively for 9th and 11th graders. The percentage of alternative education students reporting feeling safe or very safe drops further to 56%. These results have not changed significantly since the administration of the CHKS two years ago. The results indicate that while the district continues to strive to provide critical incident response training, avenues for addressing and reporting bullying and a robust counseling program, students' sense of safety remains stable but not at a level that is satisfactory to our school board or community. This continues to be an area we address through our LCAP.  In terms of relationships and sense of belonging as they pertain to school connectedness, student and staff relationships and school climate our data has peaks and valleys. Students reported that they are challenged to grow academically and are provided support by adults on campus. Students reported 52% positive for Relationships on the REACH survey, and an average of about 52% on CHKS “caring adults” and “school belonging.”  The District continues to focus on building relationships with students through extensive training in equity,  cultural responsiveness, PBIS and Universal Design for Learning.  This will continue to be an area of focus. In fact, based on this data, the District created a Wildly Important Goal which states “All students will feel a sense of belonging/connectedness to their school community.”   On the REACH survey, our district strength is in the area of aspirations with 70% of students reporting they understand the importance of goal setting and delaying gratification. Our area of growth continues to be is in culturally responsive teaching and allowing students to share their individual cultural experiences with their teachers and peers and connecting this to their learning.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
49706230000000|Bennett Valley Union Elementary|6|We give the Healthy Kids survey every other year to 5th graders.  In addition, we survey all students in grades 2-6 annually and include key questions on perceptions of school safety and connectedness.    Data: 96.15% of student reported that they feel proud to be part of their school--up from 82.42% in 17-18 79.52% reported that they are given a chance to help decide things in school- -up from 73.9% in 17-18 98.38% reported that teachers and other adults treat students with respect-- up from 95.7% in 17-18 87.27% reported that they have a trusted adult at school they can talk with when they have a problem--up from 85% in 17-18  Meaning: Our efforts to improve school climate are working.  The efforts include:  Implementation of Universal Design for Learning to reduce barriers to learning and increase student engagement;  implementation of RULER, our social emotional learning program; our inclusion efforts including Free to Be; our anti-bullying efforts  Use:  Continue and strengthen the implementation of our initiatives mentioned above and add inclusive schools training for students and staff|2019-10-16||Met|2019
01611430000000|Berkeley Unified|6|Student Services will be collaborating more closely with the sites for future implementations to assure a larger sample size at all grades for more reliable data to take action. The district is also considering expanding the survey areas beyond the minimum requirement as well as giving the survey every year instead of every other year.  BUSD Student Services and Berkeley Research and Evaluaiton and Assessment (BREA) partners with WestEd to administer and evaluate findings from the CHKS.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
43693770000000|Berryessa Union Elementary|6|Panorama Student and Family Survey results for 2018-19 School Safety 89% favorable Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness) 90% favorable|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647330106872|Bert Corona Charter|6|Students at BCCS were surveyed in June 2019 about their perceptions of their school in terms of Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration, and Culture. In addition, students provided feedback about Project-Based Learning, Student Voice and Leadership, and Drugs and Alcohol.   On an absolute basis, MORCS students provided the highest ratings on Academic Rigor and Engagement, while the lowest-rated topics were Culture and Belonging &Peer Collaboration. In order to put student feedback into context, this report compares BCCS students’ ratings to the ratings from students at 315 other middle schools across the country.  On a relative basis, BCCS students gave more favorable feedback on: Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration  MORCS students gave typical feedback on Culture.   This report represents feedback from 331 students, which represented a 92% response rate.    The school will focus on the following to move next year’s survey results to beyond the typical middle school response rate for culture. The Charter school will focus on  following   goals to increase the students favorable rating in this area for the next school year:  • Schoolwide policies: Essential 5 • The school has successfully focused on our 5 high-leverage expectations schoolwide (including electronics policy, tardies, uniform policy, etc), by being extremely clear about expectations and diligent in our followthrough • Grade level routines and procedures • Grade level leaders have taken a larger role in implementing and monitoring grade-level procedures such as entry procedure and quiet signal so that students experience consistent routines and expectations in each classroom • Restorative Justice Coordinator • The school is implementing a restorative approach to conflict by conducting community, harm/conflict, an reintegration circles in order to teach students how to heal the harm that their actions may cause to the community • Saturday School  • The school has established Saturday School this year as a behavioral intervention which includes Restorative Justice workshops for students with Tier 3 needs|2019-11-06||Met|2019
19647330132126|Bert Corona Charter High|6|Students at BCCS were surveyed in June 2019 about their perceptions of their school in terms of Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration, and Culture. In addition, students provided feedback about Project-Based Learning, Student Voice and Leadership, and Drugs and Alcohol.   On an absolute basis, MORCS students provided the highest ratings on Academic Rigor and Engagement, while the lowest-rated topics were Culture and Belonging &Peer Collaboration. In order to put student feedback into context, this report compares BCCS students’ ratings to the ratings from students at 315 other middle schools across the country.  On a relative basis, BCCS students gave more favorable feedback on: Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration  MORCS students gave typical feedback on Culture.   This report represents feedback from 331 students, which represented a 92% response rate.    The school will focus on the following to move next year’s survey results to beyond the typical middle school response rate for culture. The Charter school will focus on  following   goals to increase the students favorable rating in this area for the next school year:  • Schoolwide policies: Essential 5 • The school has successfully focused on our 5 high-leverage expectations schoolwide (including electronics policy, tardies, uniform policy, etc), by being extremely clear about expectations and diligent in our followthrough • Grade level routines and procedures • Grade level leaders have taken a larger role in implementing and monitoring grade-level procedures such as entry procedure and quiet signal so that students experience consistent routines and expectations in each classroom • Restorative Justice Coordinator • The school is implementing a restorative approach to conflict by conducting community, harm/conflict, an reintegration circles in order to teach students how to heal the harm that their actions may cause to the community • Saturday School  • The school has established Saturday School this year as a behavioral intervention which includes Restorative Justice workshops for students with Tier 3 needs|2019-11-06||Met|2019
19643110000000|Beverly Hills Unified|6|BHUSD utilizes Olweus Bullying Questionnaire to collect data on school climate. The data collected in Spring of 2019 states the following: 22% of our students have experienced some form of bullying, 80% of our parents feel their student is safe at school, and 3.9% of our students have been suspended. This data has lead us to adopt Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS). We adopted the program Fall of 2018. We are entering our 2nd year of implementation with programming that awards positive behaviors like attendance, no disciplinary reports, and building relationships. We continue to utilize Los Angeles County Office of Education as a mentor/ coach for our PBIS progress. Our students, teachers, and families are active participates in the program. We offer parent programming to reinforce the programs norms we follow in school. We continue to look for additional ways to ensure our students feel connected, safe, and build their leadership capabilities.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
10620260000000|Big Creek Elementary|6|The school climate survey was given to three (3) grade spans:  K-2; 3-5; and 6-8.  Students in the K-2 grade span respond very positive on their school experience.  `100% of students like school and believe the school wants students to do their best.  Additionally, students responded they get along with their peers and feel safe at school, while noticing good behavior is rewarded.  Students in the 3-5 grade span begin to teeter on like/dislike of school.  While the majority of students feel they do well in school and feel safe at school, student attitudes toward school and learning change.  Furthermore, students begin to form opinions about teachers with regard to respect and being treated fairly.  Students in the 6-8 grade span respond quit differently from students in the K-5 grade span.  Specifically, students tend to reflect negatively on school.  While students believe strongly they do well in school and their teachers want them to do well in school, students do not enjoy school as they once did.  Overall, students in the 6-8 grade span feel safe at school and feel there is an adult at school with whom they can confide, work remains to be done to make school more enjoyable.   To change the attitudes of students in the 6-8 grade span, staff has implemented additional electives to make school more enjoyable.  Staff has implemented a wood shop program, "Wood Shop Rocks" where students make their own electric guitars and now have science and social science being taught on a daily basis.  Staff will continue to monitor student beliefs and attitudes toward school and learning to ensure the school is meeting the needs of students not only on an academic level, but on the social/emotional level as well.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
12626950000000|Big Lagoon Union Elementary|6|Big Lagoon School does not administer the California Healthy Kids Survey due to its small size. A district created survey asked students to rate responses on a scale of 1 (strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree). Students’ responses were averaged and show the following: Students agree that they enjoy coming to school. Students strongly agree that they feel safe at school. Students agree that they trust the adults at school. Students strongly agree that they have friends at school. Students agree that there is a strong connection between home and school.  In working toward maintaining a safe and healthy school climate, the school will have character education lessons that teach and model positive social skills.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
55751840000000|Big Oak Flat-Groveland Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to  5th and 8th grades with parent permission and 9th & 11th grade with passive permission.  Of the 15 fifth graders, 11 were given permission to complete the survey. In the category of School Engagement 76% of students answered  felt connected at school.76% stated there were caring adults at school. and 82% reported academic motivation. 79% believe there is an "anti-bullying" climate and 82% reported social and emotional learning supports were in place. Overall, social engagement and supports was a strength at this grade level. The biggest area of concern was substance use and mental health, this was a trend not only District wide, but in the county as well. 18% of students reported alcohol or drug use. 9% reported using marijuana, cigarettes, or e-cigarettes. 9% reported experiencing sadness.   Of the 30 seventh graders, 27 completed the survey. In the category of School Engagement 48% of students answered they felt connected at school.52% stated there were caring adults at school. and 65% reported academic motivation. 56% reported feeling safe at school, however 63% stated they had been or bullied at school.  Overall, social engagement and supports were a strength, with the positive responses ranging from 56%-65%. The biggest area of concern was substance use and mental health, with  33% of students reported current alcohol or drug use. 11% reported using marijuana and 11% stated they were binge drinkers. Cigarettes or e-cigarettes usage was slightly less than 5th graders at 4%. 52% reported experiencing sadness and 30% stated they had considered suicide. These numbers are alarmingly high county wide. We are participating in the "Drugstore Project" at the County level to bring awareness of this problem to junior high students. The district has a full-time crisis counselor to assist with mental health. In addition the elementary school offers "art therapy" as another form of emotional support.  Of the 20 ninth graders, 15 participated in  the survey. In the category of School Engagement 33% of students answered  feeling connected at school.43% stated there were caring adults at school. and 51% reported academic motivation. 33% reported feeling safe at school, and 53% stated they had been harassed or bullied at school.  Overall,  supports had the highest positive responses ranging from 51%-55%. Students worried about fighting or having mean rumors spread about them, is highest at this grade level.  Current substance use at this age is an alarming 53% and thoughts of suicide is 33%. Eleventh graders  had a much stronger sense of student engagement and supports, than their 9th grade peers. 75% reported having school connectedness and academic motivation. The biggest struggle is drug usage at 40% with 24 % saying they were very high or drunk. 52% experienced sadness, and 12% considered suicide.  The counselor and School Resource Offer will additional offer drug/alcohol awareness.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
10101080119628|Big Picture Educational Academy|6|According to our K-8 Parent Satisfaction survey:100% of parents at BPE are satisfied to very satisfied with the physical safety of their students on site. 100% of parents at BPE are satisfied to very satisfied that school staff responds to safety concerns in a timely manner. 99% of parents at BPE are satisfied to very satisfied with the school facilities and grounds. 84% of parents at BPE are satisfied to very satisfied with the amount of supervision on campus. 88% of parents at BPE are satisfied to very satisfied with how information is given to parents. Our action steps will be to continue to work on parent communication. We will also look into providing training to our recess staff, as mentioned in the comment section of our survey. According to our Parent Satisfaction survey at the high school, 100% of our parents agree or strongly agree with the statement: Our action steps moving forward will be to increase parent participation in school events, committees, and surveys. We will be looking into different pieces of training for our staff to help communicate with parents.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
14632480000000|Big Pine Unified|6|Our data show that our parents and staff (95%-100%) view their schools as safe learning environments, where their participation is valued, and where students are encouraged to achieve at their highest potential. In 17-18 about half the students agreed with those results, and we conducted focus groups and outreach to students. 18-19 scores improved to about 75%. Further engagement of students as stakeholders continues. Disaggregation of scores for our small student population is not meaningful.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
47701850000000|Big Springs Union Elementary|6|Big Springs Elementary surveyed 100 students in grades 3rd through 8th grade. The survey focused three main areas: (1) do students feel safe at school (2) do students feel connected to school/school activities and (3) does someone care about me. Here are the results: • 90% of our students surveyed felt safe at school and 93% of the students felt they do interesting activities at school. • 94% of students answered that at school, there is a teacher or some other adult that cares about them plus 88% students felt that there is a person at school that listens when they have a concern or problem. Overall, Big Springs Elementary is a very safe place and students feel connected to the school or school activities. Although, it looks as if Big Springs Elementary can always keep look at ways to make school a better place for its students especially in the area of safety. Big Springs Elementary has safety as a main goal in its LCAP.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
27751500118349|Big Sur Charter|6|Of parents surveyed, 95% reported that their children feel emotional safe at BSCS, that their students want to attend learning center class, that parent concerns are taken seriously, and 100% of parents surveyed report that their children feel physically safe at BSCS and that the school's facilities are in good repair. Of 7th and 8th grade students surveyed, no one reported having been in a fight, and 14% reported some form of bullying. To address this, the administration will be engaging all students in social justices discussions and activities throughout the year.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
27751500000000|Big Sur Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
18640890000000|Big Valley Joint Unified|6|1. Using the results from a parent/student survey and California Healthy Kids Survey, students in grades 5, 7, 10, 11, and 12 felt safe overall, respected, supported, and engaged in school. The students in Grade 5 completed a modified California Healthy Kids Survey in the fall of 2018.  80% of 5th grade students reported that they felt safe at school. 50% of 7th grade students reported that they felt safe at school. 90% of 10th grade students reported that they felt safe at school. 50% of 11th grade students reported that they felt safe at school and 75% of 12 grade students reported that they felt safe at school. The results of the parent/student survey were shared at the March 20, 2019 school board meeting. The feeling of safety increased by 6% to 77.2%, as measured by parent/student survey and California Healthy Kids Survey. 2. BVJUSD will maintain a safe and secure school environment for students and staff. Based on a review of performance on the state indicator included in the California School Dashboard, BVJUSD will maintain the expulsion rate of 0% and will maintain the feeling of safety of 86.25% as surveyed by students who completed the California Healthy Kids Survey in the 5th, 7th, 10th, 11th, and 12 grades. 3.  BVJUSD will continue to provide a PBIS Behavior Aide to support students with accessing their education and will continue to facilitate the opportunity for students to meet with a mental health counselor weekly.  According to the District's discipline data, students are receiving less referrals, alternatives to suspensions, and suspensions with these supports.  The results are positive.|2019-03-20||Met|2019
04614080000000|Biggs Unified|6|Each year we administer a parent and student survey through Healthy Kids, the results from these surveys guide us to make changes if needed.  Through this process we have modified the dress code and discipline matrix.  The elementary school have adopted Peaceful playground model and win-win Friday model. Privacy fencing was added to the TK-K playground.  We will also be continuing our programs for student recognition. Another areas that is addressed in the survey is School Safety. The results were that an overwhelming amount of students, parents and staff feel that our school is very safe and that safety protocols are practiced regularly. We will continue to give the parent, staff and student surveys yearly in order to make positive changes in our school and facilities|2019-10-02||Met|2019
49708966085229|Binkley Elementary Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was last administered in the Spring of 2018.  At that time, 78% of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported feeling safe at school "all" or "most" of the time. Rincon Valley Union School District administers a local student survey annually. In 2018-19, 81% of elementary students and 81% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school "always" or "often." In addition, 84% of elementary students and 83% of middle school students reported that they are "always" or "often" happy to be at this school. The school district decided to continue providing professional development for more social emotional programs for staff to implement.  The 7th and 8th grade charter school also implemented the Stop It program for students to have a safe way to report incidents to staff.  We have heard from staff and parents for the ongoing need for counselors at our school sites to support the development of social emotional skills.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647331931047|Birmingham Community Charter High|6|Birmingham Community Charter High School participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the spring of 2018.  A total of 1890 students in grades 9-12 participated in the survey.  The key findings from the survey are detailed below: • Nearly 60% of our students feel close to people at the school.  Specifically, when asked to respond to the statement “I feel close to people at this school”, 57% of 9th graders agreed or strongly agreed, 57% of 10th graders agreed or strongly agreed, 58% of 11th graders agreed or strongly agreed and 55% of 12th graders agreed or strongly agreed.   • Approximately 58% of students in grades 9 through 12 felt that their teachers treat them fairly at school. • 52% of 9th graders reported that they feel connected to school and 56% of 10th graders reported that they feel connected to school.  Upper classmen also reported feeling connected with 54% of 11th grade students and 55 % of 12th grade students stating that they feel connected to school.   • Over 60% of students across all grade levels reported that they agreed or strongly agreed with the statement “I feel safe or very safe at school”.   • An average of 76% of students across all grade levels reported that “Academic motivation” is high.  Specifically, 78% of 9th graders, 77% of 10th graders, 80% of 11th graders and 70% of 12th graders agreed with the statement “I am always trying to do better in my schoolwork”.   Based on the survey results, many students feel connected to school and try hard to succeed academically.  As a faculty and a school community, we need to do more to capitalize on our students’ desire to do well in school.  Based on the survey results, only a little over 60% of our students feel “very safe” on our campus at all times.  As a faculty and a school community, we need to do more to ensure that all of our students feel “very safe” on our campus at all times.  As a result, we have launched PBIS to improve the school-wide culture and communication between students and staff.  Also, we are currently in the beginning stages of training our staff in the principles of Restorative Justice in order to provide students with a greater sense of safety and community on our campus.   Birmingham Community Charter High School also completed a Parent Survey regarding school climate.  The key findings from this survey are detailed below: • Nearly 90% of parents surveyed believe that the campus, classrooms and offices at Birmingham are well-maintained, clean, safe and secure. • Nearly 80% of parents surveyed believe that school staff are friendly and helpful to families. • Over 80% of families surveyed reported that administrators, counselors and teachers are easy to contact.   • Nearly 90% of parents surveyed reported that they feel welcome to participate in activities and meetings at Birmingham.   Moving forward, we will build upon our survey results which show that most parents feel welcome at our school to increase parent engagement.|2019-10-26|Birmingham launched Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) in the fall of 2017 to improve school-wide behavior and teacher-student relationships while providing academic support so that academic achievement increases.  The overarching goal of the program is to create a positive school culture where appropriate behavioral expectations are clear for students.  Positive behavior is then acknowledged and reinforced so that inappropriate behavior is minimized.   This school year, we are continuing with a wider implementation of PBIS that involves a greater percentage of our faculty members and students.  We are also launching a Restorative Justice Program by training an initial cohort of interested faculty members.  Restorative Justice is a powerful approach that shifts the focus of discipline to learning rather than punishment.  Restorative Justice is an inclusive process that involves all stakeholders and is a natural complement to our already established PBIS program.|Met|2019
14766870000000|Bishop Unified|6|Ninety-one fifth graders were surveyed. Results indicated that 38 percent of students perceived their school performance as being "about the same as others." Fifty one percent of students stated that in the past 30 days they did not miss a day of school. Fifty eight percent reported their were caring adults at school. Forty percent feel a sense of "school connectedness" Fifty eight percent reported they felt academically motivated "all of the time." Fifty six percent of students stated they felt proud of Bishop Elementary "all of the time." Thirty eight percent of students School Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) Page 5 of 80 Bishop Elementary School felt that the staff at Bishop Elementary help resolve conflicts "all of the time." Twenty seven percent stated they felt safe "all of the time" at school, while 46 percent stated they felt safe "most of the time." Eighty one percent of students state that teachers and grown ups on campus make it clear that bullying is "not allowed." The overall implementation of our plan has been effective and we are seeing the improvement.  We need to continue our efforts and this ongoing to improve student safety and student connectedness.   As stated in our 2019-20 LCAP, Goal 4:  Implement a plan to improve student safety and connectedness at school.   ~Continued focus on Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) - Teaching students expected behaviors and reward them for meeting and exceeding expectations, based on a “catch them being good” philosophy. ~Support peer and adult support programs and activities for students to encourage positive relationships and choices. Programs include Link Crew, Friendship Club, Peer Leaders Uniting Students (PLUS), and Where Everyone Belongs (WEB). ~Student recognition programs to encourage and reward positive attributes such as academic success and improvement and being a person of good and/or improving character. ~Video surveillance on all campuses and buses to encourage students to make better choices and allow students to feel safer. ~Continued focus on programs for drug and alcohol awareness and prevention. ~Develop district-wide safety committee comprised of all stakeholders.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
29102980114314|Bitney Prep High|6|Bitney Prep high school administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in 2016, 2018, and 2019.  Over the course of these studies, the School Climate index has increased by 54 points.  The SCI State Percentage has increased by 42% moving from the 32nd percentile to the 74th percentile.  Lastly, Bitney's SCI Similar School Percentile indicated an increase of 39%, moving from the 43rd percentile to the 82nd percentile.  Overall, we feel that during the last four years there has been a marked improvement in the school climate as measured by the CHKS.  It is notable that the change in the SCI between 2018 and 2019 showed a more modest improvement.  It is important to note that the four year timespan represented by these CHKS survey results represent the climate at Bitney during the school's transition away from a College Preparatory High School to becoming a Big Picture High School.  While that transition has not always been without challenges, we feel that these survey results do support the decision to adopt the Big Picture Learning model.  In addition to our review of Bitney Prep’s overall School Climate Index results, our staff took a close look at the disaggregated survey results for the 2019 survey.  These disaggregated results showed survey responses for 9th and 11th grade students.  In some areas there were significant differences between these two groups of younger and older students.  Our ninth grade group showed significantly higher concerns in areas of the survey related to mental/emotional health and the use of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs than did our eleventh grade group.  While our statistical sample is small and there can be significant variance between these relatively small numbers of students, we did feel that the results reflected our own observations.  One result of these observations is that we have continued to develop resources to increase access for our students to counseling and support services.  We are also working to strengthen our alcohol, drug, and tobacco education for both students and parents.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
35674540000000|Bitterwater-Tully Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
45698800000000|Black Butte Union Elementary|6|DATA: Overall Students feel connected to the teachers and support staff. They feel welcome and know that they if they were to experience any challenges that they could reach out to any staff member on campus.  MEANING: Attendance is our greatest barrier which effects our overall academics. We have made concerted effort this year to target our chronically absent students and educate students and parents on the importance of attending school. USE: Our focus is on Attendance this year. We have an achievement gap could improve with students attending schools on a regular basis. It also would help increase our budget if students attended regularly. We have already seen an increase in attendance this year in our attendance data.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
09737830000000|Black Oak Mine Unified|6|School Connectedness and Attendance This year  BOMUSD engaged in both the Performance Indicator Review (PIR) process and the  Differentiated Assistance (DA) process  whereby the El Dorado County Office of Education and our local SELPA, were our partners in examining the Annual Performance Report and School Dashboard data to identify key learnings, challenges and revisions to improve school climate.  This process revealed our greatest area of need was continued attention toward improving  attendance rates and reducing suspension rates for our overall student body and specific subgroups. Although the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) and local family survey data on connectedness to school, revealed an increase of connectedness at elementary school levels data suggested further attention be devoted to our middle and high school students.  PG& E’s Planned Safety Power Shutdowns (PSPS)and heavy winter snows continue to affect school attendance as well.  Analysis of Needs and Root Cause: BOMUSD reviewed attendance data district wide which revealed that attendance patterns were affected by weather and power related complications . Furthermore these same issues exacerbated chronic absenteeism was experienced most frequently by those students who qualified as Socio-Economcically Disadvantaged. Edsource analysis of state data noted schools in rural areas suffered most from chronic absenteeism. Black Oak Mine Unified like other districts whose location is the edge of rural El Dorado County has a high percentage of students who have “adverse childhood experiences”which can include family trauma ranging from neglect and physical abuse to parental drug addiction, incarceration or death.  Adopting a trauma informed approach to improving absentee and suspension rates is at the heart of BOMUSD’s  approach to improving the isolation students and families who live in the farthest reaches of our district with chronic absenteeism experience.  Analysis of Needs Reveal We will be focusing on school climate and culture through continued efforts using Restorative Practices and Tiered programs such as PBIS and Toolbox to help foster skills in resiliency and self regulation.  Our Family and School Together (FAST) Coordinator has revamped our school attendance expectations for teachers and families. Each site has targeted attendance goals and communicated those to the public along with monitoring daily attendance goals and first contact. These strategies were designed to increase school connectedness, attendance and decrease suspensions for the general populatin and targeted subgroups above (SED, SWD). We will also continue coordination of our multi-tiered support system (MTSS) our (Family and School Support/Adverse Childhood Experience) FASST/ACES/WELLNESS Team which began with a focus on evaluating and prescribing district social emotional health and learning programs such as our ERMHS counseling, Primary Intervention and Support, Counseling and Mental Health Service|2019-11-14|The dashboard reported reduced suspension rates for 2018 and improved connectedness despite challenges. Continued attention to the development of new Tier III/SST procedures and services, changes in the structure of our 7-12 schedule, the addition of our  Family and Schools Together (FAST) Coordinator were suggested in our DA process. Pivotal leadership of district wide attendance team is believed to provide critically needed services to families; especially, with regard to social emotional learning, attendance, student discipline, and healthy living.|Met|2019
43693936046510|Blackford Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
15633540000000|Blake Elementary|6|Staff, Board Members, parents, and stateholders work together to create a safe and nurturing environment for the students.  Any and all concerns brought before the Board of Trustees is taken into account and voted upon as needed.  An End of the Year Survey is given each year to assess the climate of the school.  Parents feel connected with the school and staff and feel supported by the Board of Trustees.  Their ideas and concerns are consistently considered during board meetings.    Concerns for the state of the playground have been addressed and a new basketball court has been installed.  The students’ request for more library books is being granted as new books are being added through the school year.  We are exploring more ways to collect data around school conditions and climate throughout the year.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
42691120000000|Blochman Union Elementary|6|The district administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 6, 7, and 8 in October of 2018.  When asked about school connectedness 75% of sixth graders responded with “yes, most of the time” or “yes, all of the time” to the question.  For grades 7 and 8, 64% of seventh graders and 57% of eighth graders answered “agreed” or “strongly agreed”.   When asked about school safety, 69% of sixth graders reported that they feel safe at school all of the time or most of the time.  For grades 7 and 8, 86% of seventh graders reported feeling safe or very safe and 60% of eighth graders reported feeling safe or very safe.  Bullying appears to be an issue with sixth and seventh graders but starts to taper off by eighth grade. School connectedness is an area of strength in grade 6.  However, school connectedness becomes more of a challenge once students reach grades 7 and 8.  Bullying is a challenge across all grade groups.   The district has been training teachers in the Multi-tiered System of Support (MTSS) methodology.  MTSS is an integrated framework that includes Common Core State Standards (CCSS), core instruction, differentiated learning, Response to Intervention (RTI) and Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) frameworks.    The district added additional school psychologist services and implemental a PBIS system to help address student mental health and behavioral issues.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
12627030000000|Blue Lake Union Elementary|6|1. DATA SCHOOL CLIMATE -- PARENT SURVEYS Teachers at this school communicate with parents about what students are expected to learn in class          Strongly disagree 0         Disagree 8%         Neither disagree or agree 8%         Agree 35%          Strongly Agree 50% (Increase by 12%) Parents feel welcome to participate at this school          Strongly disagree 0  Disagree 0  Neither disagree or agree 8%  Agree 31%  Strongly Agree 62%  (Increase of 24%) School staff takes parent concerns seriously          Strongly disagree 0  Disagree 4%  Neither disagree or agree 8%  Agree 38%  Strongly Agree 50%  (Increase of 12%)  SCHOOL CLIMATE -- TEACHERS/STAFF SURVEYS Staff really care about every student.          Strongly disagree 0  Disagree 5%  Neither disagree or agree 0  Agree 21%  Strongly Agree 74% (Increase of 10%) School has high expectations for all students.          Strongly disagree 5%  Disagree 5%  Neither disagree or agree 0%  Agree 42%  Strongly Agree 47% (Increase of 5%)  SCHOOL CLIMATE -- 5TH GRADE STUDENT SURVEYS I feel close to people at  this school          No, never 13%  Yes, some of the time 32%  Yes, most of the time 25%  Yes, all of the time 31%  (Increase of 31%) I am happy to be at this school          No, never 13%  Yes, some of the time 38%  Yes, most of the time 38%  Yes, all of the time 13% I feel like I am part of this school          No, never 25%  Yes, some of the time 38%  Yes, most of the time 19%  Yes, all of the time 19% The teachers at this school treat students fairly          No, never 0  Yes, some of the time 18%  Yes, most of the time 44%  Yes, all of the time 38% I feel safe in my school No, never 0%  Yes, some of the time 44%  Yes, most of the time 50%  Yes, all of the time 6%  2. Meaning The data suggest that our parents and teachers are feeling more connected in 2018-2019, but our students did not.   3. Revision Needed We continue to strive for 100% of our students, staff, and families to feel connected and safe.  We are utilizing a new student information system and a revision to our Student Council to help families feel informed and students feel connected.   We have increased our professional development to continue with rapport building, student interactions, and academic rigor.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
54105460135459|Blue Oak Academy|6|Since Blue Oak Academy served only students in grades K-3 during the 2018-2019 school year, the student population was too young to receive the California Healthy Kids Survey as the survey is only administered to students in grades 5, 8, 10.  During the 2019-2020 school year, Blue Oak Academy is comprised of students in grades K-4. A local survey will be developed and administered for fourth grade students.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
04614246119523|Blue Oak Charter|6|During the spring of 2019, an online survey was given to parents, community members, staff and students from third through eighth.  Community meetings and all staff discussions were held to garner input.  Areas of strength include the integration of art, movement, and experiential learning.  Areas of concern include preparation for high school and campus cleanliness. Areas rated high but with significant numbers concerned included, parent engagement, welcoming atmosphere, support for struggling students, and campus safety.  Based on this information Blue Oak increased it's focused on high school level skills, including work completion in upper grades, and organizational skills.  Academics and test preparation continue to be a focus. The Facilities Manager and his staff continue to work on campus cleanliness.  Volunteers also engaged in caring for the campus.  A continuing safety committee addresses safety plans and practices as well as the facility's overall safety.  Parent communication tools have been put in place including Aeries Portal and Parent Square. The Leadership Team which focuses on struggling students now meets weekly and the schedule for SST's has been improved to increase implementation of Tier 2 interventions more quickly.  We are seeing some improvement in the areas of concern and will continue to focus on the completion of our goals.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
15636280134312|Blue Ridge Academy|6|We administer an annual school climate survey to parents and students. Survey results indicate that over 90% of parents agree or strongly agree that:  • their children are receiving a good education • their children felt safe and connected to the school • receive an adequate amount of academic support by the school • communication and interactions with the teacher were effective, safe, and provided Results also indicate that over 85% of students agree or strongly agree that: • they look forward to school each day  • their teacher is engaging • their teachers contact the family regularly to provide academic support  • feel connected through the educational field trips, enrichment activities, and other social events offered through the school such as zoo days, school dances, field trips or park days  To increase students’ perceptions that they are cared for and capable, we plan to increase the number of online classes and discussion opportunities to increase student engagement.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
47701930000000|Bogus Elementary|6|1. We received a parent survey from all families. 92% of parents felt the school provided information and training to support their child's learning. 92% felt the school does a good job of getting important school and classroom information to parents. 92% felt parents are provided with opportunity to be involved with their child's education. 85% felt they are provided with opportunities to be involved in school decisions.  2. Parents are mostly happy with the school and the opportunities it provides. Parents would like more opportunities to be involved in school decisions.  3. In next years survey we will included a section that will allow parents to write open ended responses on priorities they would like for the school to do during the year.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
21653000000000|Bolinas-Stinson Union|6|The LEA uses a reliable survey yearly to gain broad information about staff, parent and student perceptions regarding overall school climate. Over 4 years, survey results have indicated general satisfaction about school climate but also indicate that there is room for improvement.  For three years there has been a notable discrepancy between student and teacher beliefs about positive relationships- with staff viewing relationship with students more positively than students do.  Disaggregation of data in such a small school has proved challenging as well making it hard to ascertain where to put forth additional effort and resources.  It should be noted, however, that survey results are generally positive and that any relative weakness may attract greater attention that might be the case if results were profoundly negative.|2019-10-08|The LEA changed its survey tool in 2019 and due to complications in administration did not receive reliable data.  The new survey, PBIS (Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports) will be implemented mid-year in 2019-2020 and is expected to yield data that can be more deeply disaggregated than was possible with earlier surveys and that will provide baseline data going forward.  It should also be noted that there was staffing change of nearly 25% in 19-20 which will be likely to have an effect on school climate.|Met|2019
19643290000000|Bonita Unified|6|-The percentage of students indicating that they feel a part of the school was 78% for 5th grade, 60% for 7th grade, 55% for 9th, and 49% for 11th grade. - The percentage of students perceiving school as a safe or very safe place was 86% for 5th grade, 72% for 7th grade, and 65% for 9th, and 65% for 11th grade.  Based on the data collected through the California Healthy Kids Survey, Bonita USD has made the decision to replace this survey with a new survey system through Panorama Education for students. The new survey will allow for the inclusion of more grade levels and individualized student data for sites and the district to better serve students' needs. Bonita USD is focused on all students feeling safe and being a partner in their educational experience. The new data will allow the district to strategically manage resources to ensure all students' needs are addressed by our newly hired Mental Health Counselors.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
44697320000000|Bonny Doon Union Elementary|6|Bonny Doon Union Elementary School District is committed to engaging parents and other stakeholders and incorporating their feedback in the decision-making process. Various programs and events have been established to initiate outreach and make connections with parents, including the Parent Club, Parent Information Nights, and back-to-school night presentation. Establishing these connections and developing relationships leads to greater parent involvement. In addition to the aforementioned parent engagement opportunities, parents are able to provide meaningful input in decision-making when serving on committees such as School Site Council.  BDUESD’s provides parents and students an annual survey to incorporate feedback into the goal setting and LCAP processes.  2018-19 Parent Survey revealed that 89% of parents agree or strongly agree (48% and 41%, respectively) that they “receive timely and adequate communication about school events, activities, and other related news.” The survey has been a valuable tool for seeking input from parents and promoting parent participation and can be refined further to provide actionable data and accurate measures of parental involvement.   BDUESD will gather input from parents during events and activities to supplement feedback received on our parent survey in order to more comprehensively assess parental perceptions of school participation. This locally-authored survey was chosen because it gathers information directly from parents.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37768510000000|Bonsall Unified|6|Bonsall Elementary CA Healthy Kids Survey Results:  https://data.calschls.org/resources/Bonsall_Unified_1617_Elem_CHKS.pdf  Bonsall Secondary CA Healthy Kids Survey Results: https://data.calschls.org/resources/Bonsall_Unified_1617_Sec_CHKS.pdf  Results from the CA Healthy Kids Survey indicated the following:  At the secondary level, 90-95% of students feel they do have a caring adult at school.  85-95% of secondary students believe that adults at school have high expectations of them. At the secondary level, 17-22% of the 7th-11th graders acknowledge skipping school or cutting classes. 15-25% of high school students state that they have missed school in the last month due to feeling hopeless, not getting enough sleep, or not feeling safe at school.  95% of elementary school students feel that there is a caring adult at school.  97% of the elementary students feel adults in school have high expectations of them.  87% of elementary students state that they are academically motivated and 93% of elementary students demonstrate a moderate or high level of school connectedness. Bonsall will continue to refine our focus on Restorative Justice and PBIS as well as engaging staff in trauma-informed practice in alignment to the district's focus on students' social and emotional development in schools.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
37679830000000|Borrego Springs Unified|6|The LEA uses surveys to collect school climate data. Data indicate overall health and satisfaction among the students.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
34674396033799|Bowling Green Elementary|6|Overall our school climate survey showed strongly positive results with over 80% of students reporting overall positive feelings about school.  There were no major disparities between ethnic groups or based on program participation.  Our school will continue to promote Character Strength Education and and asset-based approach to discipline.  Additionally, our student support center will continue to provide access to school-based mental health supports.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
31667616031009|Bowman Charter|6|Based on the results of Ackerman Charter School District’s LCAP parent survey and CHKS survey of both 5th and 7th grade students during the 2018-19 school year, there has been some areas of improvement and areas that have raised concern. On average 74% (82% of 5th grade, 66% of 7th grade) of students are feeling a strong sense of school connectedness according to the 18-19 CHKS survey. On average 71% (80% of 5th, 64% of 7th) report feeling safe at school. Based on our 2017-18 parent CHKS survey 97% strongly agree that their child feels sand and connected to school, while 98% of families surveyed feel the school offers opportunities to be involved as a parent.|2019-10-16|In looking at our survey results of students, parents, and staff; it was identified that an area of interest was the school climate of bullying. In addressing this our teachers, administration and parents took action and have used our Multi-Tiered System of Support grant to purchase a social-emotional curriculum to be implemented in all classrooms over time. Another portion of the funding was spent on professional development for teachers to develop support programs within the general education classroom to address the needs of all students in core academic areas. We believe that addressing the social emotional needs of today’s students, along with meeting their academic needs at their level will improve the overall school climate and strengthen the connectedness that students feel.|Met|2019
27659790000000|Bradley Union Elementary|6|Each year of the local survey that has been given, have had very similar results.  Parents, students, and community continually place a high premium on a school that focuses on hands on experiential learning opportunities, field trips, and well rounded, "whole-child" education including art and music.  Bradley School continues to have 8 - 10 field trips per year, including a 3 night science camp.  The District also employs itinerant art and music teachers.  The second tier of the survey consists of sports, technology, and enjoyment based activities at school.  Bradley has made it a priority to have a 1:1 student:technology ratio and to implement high quality educational technology.   The District participates in small school sports leagues for volleyball, basketball, and softball, as well as trimesterly enjoyment based reward field trips.  Typically the third tier on the majority of the surveys are intervention activities and counseling.  However, those two items are priorities for staff and the governing board. Therefore the District has continued to employ .2 FTE school counselor, and builds it's daily schedule to include an intervention and enrichment block.  The final tier of the parent surveys, staff surveys, and community surveys is always CAASPP testing results.  However, the District still actively tries to improve CAASPP scores as a result of proper implementation of all of the other priorities listed.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
13630730000000|Brawley Elementary|6|BESD annually administers the CA Parent and Staff Survey to include all stakeholders as we work to improve our climate in the district and at schools.  In addition, we also administer the CHKS to 5th and 7th graders annually although it is only required biannually.  We have learned that perspectives differ by stakeholder group.  In the area of students feeling a sense of connectedness to their school, we experienced a decline from the previous year:  Oakley/64%; Hidalgo/59%; Witter/48%; Swing/67%; and BWJH/55%.   In the area of students feeling safe at school, we experienced a slight decline from the previous year:  Oakley/62%; Hidalgo/55%; Witter/51%; Swing/79%; and BWJH/51%.  In contrast, we experienced an increase in the percentage of students that reported that violence in the school was low.  From a staff perspective, seventy-five percent of participants reported that the working environment is supportive and inviting, while seventy-eight percent felt that they were included in decision-making.  Eighty-three percent of staff participants reported that their school was a safe place for students and eighty-four percent feel that their school is a safe place for staff.  In an effort to decrease suspensions and chronic absenteeism, all five sites are actively implementing PBIS.  Each site has two PBIS Teams working closely to improve behavior in a positive manner.  In addition, during the 18-19 school year, we focused our efforts on our chronic absenteeism rate by increasing home visits, acknowledging progress and providing incentives for attendance, especially on problematic days.  As a result, we saw a significant decrease in our chronic absenteeism from 17-18 to 18-19.  We will continue to focus on improving our culture/climate at the district office, as well as at sites.  We know that when climate improves, students and staff want to be at school which leads to improved outcomes.|2019-09-24||Met|2019
13630810000000|Brawley Union High|6|The district conducted its Healthy Kids Survey in April 2019.  It surveyed 9th and 11th grade students.  Perceived safety, student connectedness, mental health and well being were top priorities for the district to review.  Approximately half of all students felt "safe"  or "very safe" at school and only 5% of 9th graders and 2% of 11th graders reported feel unsafe at school as a reason for absence in the last 30 days.  51% of 9th graders and 61% of 11th graders felt they had caring adults at school.  Approximately 54% of 9th graders and 56% of 11th graders had a feeling of school connectedness.  All of these results fall in or around the 50% range which in turn means that the other 50% of students have the opposite feelings.  Students do not feel unsafe to the point they do not want to attend school, but school safety and security is at the forefront of the district's plan.  The district wants all students to feel safe at school with caring adults to turn to.  With the continuous professional development centered around building relationships, the LEA is confident this number will increase at the next survey cycle.  The district has begun to provide guest speakers from various homeland security and law enforcement agencies to empower students to feel safe in their environment and provide them tools to know what to do in certain emergency situations.  The LEA employs a student resource officer who is a badged police officer and she not only counsels students, but gives presentations to all classes regarding what to do in case of an emergency at school.  Students are able to ask her questions and feel confident in knowing their role in case of an emergency.  Over half of the students felt a sense of connectedness to their respective schools.  The district sends out student surveys and will include a section for student connectedness and how the district can improve upon providing quality opportunities and activities to increase student connectedness.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
30664490000000|Brea-Olinda Unified|6|BOUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey, an LCAP survey and held focus group meetings to gather input.  BOUSD launched The Multi Tiered Systems of Support to provide intervention in all areas.  Site leadership and school staff collaborate to create a Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) program that is directed at improving school climate and culture.  In addition, Restorative Practices were implemented.  Careful analysis of the data is reviewed annually to reflect and revise to meet the needs of students.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
07616550000000|Brentwood Union Elementary|6|Data: BUSD chose to use the Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to report on Priority 6.  2017-2018 CHKS Grade 5 Grade 7 School connectedness (high) 43% 30% Feeling safe at school 82% n/a School perceived as very safe or safe n/a 75%  Meaning: A review of the data indicates that 43% of students in grade 5 and 30% of students in grade 7 have a high connectedness to school.    In fifth grade 82% of students feel safe at school and 75% of seventh grade students perceive school as safe or very safe.  These numbers demonstrate a significant percentage of students who feel safe at school with a much smaller percentage of students who feel connected at school.  It should be noted that in fifth grade 44% of girls and 31% of boys feel connected and 79% of girls and 78% of boys feel safe at school.   In seventh grade 26% of Hispanic/Latino students, 28% of Asian students, 14% of African America students, 34% of White students, and 28% of Mixed race students feel connected to school.  Also, 30% of female students and 29% of male students feel connected at school.  Lastly, 73% of seventh grade females and 76% of seventh grade males feel safe at school.   Use: BUSD is implementing the following actions as result of the data: • Partnership with Sandy Hook Promise • Implementation of Say Something App (an anonymous reporting system, • Counselor small groups • Expansion of student led clubs at Middle Schools • PD on Trauma Informed Practice • Alice Training (Active Shooter) for staff and lessons for students Site leadership focused on character education and advisory programs (based on data analysis)|2019-10-23||Met|2019
05615560000000|Bret Harte Union High|6|DATA: The results reveal our students are feeling supported, engaged and connected on our campus.  They also  report that they perceive our school to be safe.  Students are reporting an increase in feelings of chronic sadness/hopelessness and have considered suicide.  In addition, it appears that the data reflects that use of electronic cigarettes is on the rise. Historically, our survey results in alcohol have also been lower.  MEANING:    In 2015, CHKS results revealed that 29% of 9th grade students and 32% of 11th grade students experienced Chronic Sadness/Hopelessness and 16% of 9th grade students and 15% of 11th grade students considered suicide.  2018 saw an increase with 41% of our 9th grade students and 35% of our 11th grade students experience chronic sadness/hopelessness and 25% of our 9th grade students and 23% of our 11th grade students have considered suicide.  This data has also been compared to the Nationwide date from the Center of Disease Control validating this disturbing rise.  Also, the results reveal that that both 39% of our 9th grade students and 56% of our 11th grade students have used any/all alcohol or other drugs.  23% of 9th grade students and 36% of 11th grade students in 2018 used electronic cigarettes compared to the survey results in 2017 which show that only  8% of our 9th grade students and 8% of our 11th grade students used electronic cigarettes.  USE:  As a result of the key findings discussed above, Bret Harte has implemented several new programs and resources onto the campus.  First, the district has hired a full time School Resource Officer that provides assistance and support to those students smoking and/or using alcohol and/or drugs along with overall safety on campus.   Diversion groups and Tobacco Cessation groups are offered and co-facilitated by our School Nurse, School Counselor, Drug & Alcohol Counselor and School Resource Officer.  In addition, vaping devices are being installed in the boys/girls restrooms this year to monitor and address the rise in electronic cigarettes.  The School Resource Officer and School Counselor are collaborating with the Department of Public Health to help facilitate unique ways to educate our students and parents about the risks of using electronic cigarettes.  Mindfulness groups are provided monthly by a member in the community on campus, to help support students cope with the stressors and manage the demands that high school life brings.  We also provide a Sources of Strength program that seeks to reduce the risk of suicide, violence and substance abuse by using peer leaders, supported by adult mentors to positively impact their friendship networks in a united manner.  QPR training will be provided to all staff and faculty this school year to give them the tools to recognize a crises and warning signs that someone may be contemplating suicide by applying (Question, Persuade, Refer = QPR techniques).  A Mental Health paraprofessional position is a newly created|2019-10-07||Met|2019
43694506047229|Bridges Academy|6|Bridges Academy has a targeted focus on attendance, behavior, and social-emotional learning of our students.  One of the ways we measure students' social-emotional well-being is through the California Healthy Kids Survey.  During the 2018-2019 school year, our 7th grade students completed the California Healthy Kids Survey. Overall, an average of 43% of 7th grade students scored in the high range for school connectedness. In addition, 44% of 7th graders reported  feeling safe or very safe at school.  We have seen an increase in our data around school connectedness from 2017-2018 to 2018-2019. The 7th grade students increased by 27%  points in the area of school connectedness and we saw a 7% point increase in the area of 7th grade student’s reporting feeling safe or very safe at school.  We have increased our student support systems including hiring a school social worker  and piloting social-emotional learning curriculum scaling supports and resources through 7th and 8th grade. This will help us better target student needs  The school is considered to have met the standard as a survey was distributed to at least one grade level in all available grade spans and results were analyzed and reported.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
56105610121756|BRIDGES Charter|6|Bridges administers the Healthy Kids survey to students in grades 5 and 7. The survey results are compiled and presented to the board, to parents during coffee chats, and to teachers during staff development. The survey results are used for making decisions about improving both physical safety and emotional well-being of students. For the 2017-18 school year, Bridges adopted a new social-emotional growth curriculum that was implemented school-wide to help ensure systematic instruction and support for social-emotional learning. In SY 2018/2019, we adopted an additional school-wide social emotional learning curriculum, Toolbox, which supports students in developing empathy, understanding, and the skills to navigate the complexities of life. Teachers also implement daily circle/council with their students. Bridges also utilizes the data gathered in the California Healthy Kids Survey to assess the effectiveness of our social emotional learning curriculum and its' impact on various ages and sub groups of students.   Students in 5th grade reported "true" or "very much true" to the following degree: 90% Feel Safe at School; 78% feel connected at school; 91% feel motivated academically; 72% feel there are caring adults at school; 90% feel that adults at school have high academic expectations for them; 43% feel there are opportunities for meaningful engagement at school.   Students in 7th grade reported "Yes, all the time" or "Yes, most of the time" to the following degree: 81% perceive school as very safe; 85% feel there are caring adults at school; 86% believe that adults at school hold them to high academic expectations; 52% feel there are opportunities for meaningful participation at school; 84% feel connected to school; 79% feel motivated academically; 86% feel there are positive opportunities for parents to be involved at school.   Based on the results from our Healthy Kids Survey, we recognize the need to form individual connections with students. We have expanded the number of teachers, specialists, and staff available to support the social-emotional development of our students during the day by scheduling in more opportunities for conflict resolution, peer leadership, and meaningful service learning. We have also scheduled monthly student-led social-emotional themed assemblies to promote school connectedness.   Further, our teachers are revisiting Project Based Learning in-depth to design new units to encourage deeper investment and engagement in academic curriculum.|2019-10-14|We have focused on ensuring that all of our teachers and staff are trained in our school-wide social emotional curriculum and have received training in non-violent communication and conflict resolution. We also provide training and parent education opportunities for our parent volunteers to learn our practices of navigating conflict and supporting students in the classroom.   In the last several years, we have been focused on investing more resources in social emotional support in alignment with our whole child philosophy. We have hired and increased hours for our on-site counselor who leads social skills groups with students and offers school-based 1-1 counseling. Further, in the last year, we have spent more than 12 hours of professional development dedicated to developing and refining school wide norms and expectations for behavior, collaboration, and developing a school environment where students can feel healthy, safe, engaged, supported, and challenged.|Met|2019
12627290000000|Bridgeville Elementary|6|School climate surveys were distributed to students, parents and school staff in spring 2019. The results were collected and indicate: 1. 91% of students felt safe at school and 100% felt respected and that others at school cared about them. 2. 100% of parents felt safe and welcomed at school. 3. 100% of staff members felt safe at school and respected each other's differences.|2019-10-08|Due to small size of the school population data was not disaggregated into groups.|Met|2019
56724470000000|Briggs Elementary|6|The Briggs School District issued the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 7th graders. Data indicated: When students were asked if they felt they were treated fairly, happy to be at school and safe at school, 74% of surveyed 5th graders and 51% of 7th graders had a high level of connectedness. When students were asked about caring relationships with adults in school, 75% of 5th graders and 25% of 7th graders scored high level for meaningful relationships. 25% of 5th graders stated medium level of caring relationships and 64% of 7th graders stated a medium level for caring relationships. There were 73% of 5th graders and 43% of 7th graders who felt adults in the school setting had high expectations. 24% of 5th graders and 52% of 7th graders report medium level of high expectations at school. When asked whether they feel safe at school, 63% of 5th graders and 19% of 7th graders felt very safe with 30% of 5th graders and 47% of 7th graders stating they feel safe at school.  The CHKS data revealed a need for the district to provide more social emotional support for staff and students. Through the MTSS SUMS grant, the district created a leadership team that met and used a Fidelity Integrity Assessment tool to help find the strengths and gaps of the district. The results indicated a need to update the district’s current discipline policy. The district is currently providing on-going staff training to streamline responses to discipline incidents using the CHAMPS model. The district is also utilizing a school-based counselor to provide staff with social emotional strategies to support themselves and their students in the classroom. The CHKS survey will again be issued in the 19/20 school year so the district can evaluate the on-going progress and how it is affecting students.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19647330112508|Bright Star Secondary Charter Academy|6|BSSCA - to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019.  School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 65% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average English Language Learner -13% Asian -12%  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 39% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average Identified race other than Black or African American, Asian or White + 13%  Use District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student Surveys for 2018-2019|2019-10-28||Met|2019
41688740000000|Brisbane Elementary|6|The majority of student surveyed had positive responses. Sample data include: 97% of respondents felt supported at school; 62% participated in after-school programs at their school; 61% of respondents felt safe at school; 43% of respondents felt happy at school.|2019-10-16|In 2018-19, the District utilized a new climate survey instrument. The data gathered in Spring 2019 will serve as the baseline against which future administrations will be compared.|Met|2019
41690216044739|Brittan Acres Elementary|6|SCSD administers the Panorama Student Survey to students annually and these results are used to shape LCAP goals. The results below (% favorable) were reported by students on the spring 2019 survey and reported to the Board on May 23, 2019.   Brittan Acres Safety: 80% Sense of Belonging: 80% Supportive Relationships: 89%   Goal 4 of SCSD’s LCAP specifically targets student engagement and sense of belonging:  Ensure Equitable Access to Learning for all Students and Increase Student Engagement and Sense of Belonging Within Each School Community. Specific actions have been established to address school climate, sense of belonging, active participation, caring adults and high expectations. Ensuring more student voice and choice, increasing student engagement opportunities and Project-Based Learning, and implementing Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), and beginning to develop a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) across all schools were identified as high impact actions.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
51713570000000|Brittan Elementary|6|Each year we administer a parent and student survey, the results from these surveys guide us to make changes if needed.  Through this process we have continued the art program and music programs in grade JS-2. The primary playground has new equipment and a bond was passed to build a new gym.  We will also be continuing our programs for student recognition. Another area that is addressed in the survey is School Safety. The results were that an overwhelming amount of students, parents and staff feel that our school is very safe and that safety protocols are practiced regularly. We will continue to give the parent, staff and student surveys yearly in order to make positive changes in our school and facilities.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
51713650000000|Browns Elementary|6|Browns Elementary School District is committed to creating a positive learning environment for all stakeholders.  BESD is dedicated to engaging parents and stakeholders in the decision-making process.  Diverse approaches have been implemented to encourage outreach and create connections between families and the district (Back to School Night, Parents’ Club Meetings and sponsored activities, STEM Family Night, and Open House).  Forming these relationships and encouraging participation leads to greater overall involvement.  Additionally, parents and stakeholders are able to engage and provided meaningful feedback through attendance of monthly board meetings.  Additionally, parents have the opportunity to participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey to respond to a variety of areas – this survey functions as a helpful tool to evaluate parental perceptions of school participation and allows BESD to evaluate and modify practices to encourage positive interaction and participations between the district and all stakeholders.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
09618380000000|Buckeye Union Elementary|6|The following are results of the climate survey for 5th and 7th grade.  5th grade: I feel safe at school - 98% 7th grade: I feel safe at school - 89%  5th grade: I enjoy coming to school to see my friends - 97% 7th grade: I enjoy coming to school to see my friends - 96%  5th grade: I have positive relationships with teachers and other adults at school - 97% 7th grade: I have positive relationships with teachers and other adults at school - 86%  The results indicate students in 5th grade feel safe and connected at school. Somewhat lower levels of feeling safe and being connected to adults were noted among 7th graders. The middle school sites are actively engaged in school climate efforts such as Core 3 and Multi Tiered Systems of Support.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
09618380137919|Buckeye Union Mandarin Immersion Charter|6|Below are the results of the student survey.  I feel safe at school 98% I have friends at school 100% My teacher knows me and helps me learn 100%  The key findings are that students feel positively connected and safe at school.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
42691380000000|Buellton Union Elementary|6|BUSD administers the following surveys: -CA Healthy Kids Survey, grades 5 & 7 = every other year -Parent Satisfaction Survey = annually -California School Staff Survey = every other year In 2018-19, we administered the CAHKS and Staff Survey in November. We also updated our Parent Survey in order to be more relevant with our current programs. We utilize the results of these surveys to update our Single Plans for Student Achievement and LCAP.  The results of these surveys are shared and analyzed with the School Site Councils, faculties and other leadership teams and the results are used to make informed decisions about the schools' programs. We can continue to work on the social and emotional development of our students. In order to do so, we are in our second year of implementing a district-wide curriculum called Second Step.  We have reinstated our school counselor to a full-time position in order to work with more students in a group setting. We also have lunch clubs at the middle school that focus on kindness and friendship. As a district, we can continue our professional development in order to develop strategies to meet the differentiated needs of our diverse student population. In order to do so, we are beginning to explore Universal Design for Learning (UDL), as well as review current instructional programs for effectiveness. As a model site for implementing MTSS, we continue to provide high quality interventions for all students in need. A 3-year analysis of disaggregated parent survey results indicate the following overall communications are improving and satisfaction in the schools’ academic programs remains high. One key area that both schools continue to strengthen is student input in their educational programs. We continually seek ways for students to contribute their thoughts and ideas for how to improve both school sites and become active stakeholders in their education and schools.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
30664560000000|Buena Park Elementary|6|1. The 2017-2018 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey, with a sample size of 416 7th grade students, reported Buena Park School District (BPSD) 61% Hispanic or Latino, 4% African American 16% Asian, 8% White. In addition, the survey reported BPSD as 66% Free and Reduced Lunch and 14% not living in a traditional home. In Buena Park School District, 92% of students surveyed reported that they felt a Medium to high level of school connectedness, this is an increase of 37% from the 2015-2016 administration; 93% of students that felt safe in school and 86% of students mentioned medium to high levels of parent involvement.  Of interest are the scores lower than 50% which included 46% of students believed that they are able to meaningfully participate in the school environment.   2. The 2017-2018 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey, with a sample size of 298 5th grade students. This survey was not previously administered to the 5th grade.  In Buena Park School District, 72% of students mentioned that they feel safe in school all of the time, 74% of students said they are treated with respect either most and all of the time and 72% of students answered teachers care about them most or all of the time.  Of interest are the scores lower than 55% which included 51% of students answered that teachers and grownups get to know them most or all of the time, 33% of students answered that teachers at school ask about their ideas and 11% of students said that teachers ask what they want to learn about most or all of the time. Elementary schools overall could improve in the area of meaningful participation at school with an overall average reporting of 34% of students saying that they have opportunities for meaningful participation most or all of the time.  3. The Buena Park School District implemented a Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) that aligns academic, behavioral, and social-emotional learning in an integrated system of support. The District’s MTSS approach supports all student needs including those highlighted by the California Healthy Kids Survey.  The District also utilizes first-best instruction and tiered interventions are delivered using researched-based Universal Design for Learning (UDL) instructional strategies.  New additions to interventions include a Universal Screener (coming soon), a new partnership with Orange County Health Care Agency for additional counseling and wrap around support, and a recently awarded grand from the Department of Justice aimed at Vaping and tobacco use, which will fund a school resource officer as well as Vape Detecting devices for the whole District.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
54718290000000|Buena Vista Elementary|6|Buena Vista administered the Healthy Kids Survey to fifth and seventh grade in April of 2019.  What we found is that about 80 percent of our students feel connected and that the adults are caring and have high expectations.  About 84 percent of students feel that they are treated fairly and that the rules are fair. Nearly 100 percent of students feel that their own behavior and that of their friends is positive. 80 percent of students feel safe at school.  81 percent believe that we maintain  an anti-bullying climate.  86  and 93 percent of students report that they have never tried alcohol or tobacco. While we believe these results are positive, we also know that there is room for improvement.  Our students generally feel safe and trust the staff to help them when needed.  We can use this to our advantage to continue to provide educational opportunities to increase safety and connectedness.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
43104390106534|Bullis Charter|6|BCS administered a Panorama Education survey to its K-8 students in May, 2019. The results of this survey showed the following: 74% of students either strongly agree or agree that they feel safe at school. Additionally, 72% of students reported they feel like there is an adult at school who knows them well, which promotes a sense of connectedness and belonging. When these results were disaggregated by students in K-5 compared to middle school students, there is a slight decline in these percentages. In order to address this, BCS has hired a school counselor who is working to deliver increased services to our middle school students.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
19643370000000|Burbank Unified|6|• The key findings from the survey related to seeking input from parents/guardians in school and district decision making: According to the climate survey, 49% of parents feel that the District office incorporated input from a wide range of school stakeholders including, teachers, students, and parents; 60% of parents engaged in school-related conversations with teachers more than once a month. Although only 19% of parents are aware of the LCAP; 49% indicated that the Burbank Unified School District had actively sought parent involvement in the LCAP process and 51% replied that they were informed about the LCAP goals. 27% of parents were familiar with Bond Measure S. The District is looking at ways to increase both communication and increase participation and has added a new LCAP goal: Develop new communication and collaborative strategies with parents, students, employees, and the community. One of the actions was to update the district website and the district communications platforms. This has enabled us to increase the number of families and the number of methods for communication to families district news. • The key findings from the survey related to promoting parental participation in programs; According to the climate survey the key findings from the survey related to promoting parental participation in programs at the schools were the following: 77% of parents believe that principals communicate regularly with parents; 65% felt that the principals incorporated input from a wide range of school stakeholders, including teachers, students and parents. 75% of parents indicate that the school principals made parents feel welcome, wanted and encouraged a culture of respect. 76% also believe that the principals responded professionally and proactively to parents' questions and concerns.  The District has used the results of the survey which are presented annually to the school board to inform the District goals and to inform the development of the LCAP.|2019-10-17|Burbank Unified School District chose Hanover Research as the provider of the survey for the following reasons: they had significant experience in developing school climate surveys; they did not push an off the shelf survey, but rather listened to the needs of the community. They also assisted the District in the creation of the survey items; and, Hanover was able to turn the data around quickly, so that the District had the results for the LCAP writing process. In addition, they are available and maintain regular communication with the District as we go through the yearly cycle of administration of the climate survey. It was also important to the District to protect the anonymity of the responses by having the data analyzed by a third party. There was some concern among stakeholders that critical remarks would be tracked back to the respondent. In order to gather accurate data, it is important for the respondents to feel safe.  Currently, the district is in the process of working with stakholders to revise the district survey and will administer the survey in early February.|Met|2019
41688820000000|Burlingame Elementary|6|During the 2018-2019 school year, the Burlingame School District had all 5th and 7th-grade students participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey.  From these results, we found that our students had strong relationships at school with staff.  We also saw an uptick in digital media misuse.  Due to the increase in digital media misuse the Burlingame School District researched and implemented a scope and sequence grade TK-8 for Digital Citizenship that also has a family engagement component.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
53716620000000|Burnt Ranch Elementary|6|The results of a school-wide survey showed that over 90% of students feel safe at school. The majority of students surveyed felt that their concerns were heard and that there were adults on campus who cared about them. One challenge identified is how to effectively communicate school events and news with all parents and families. The school will be implementing more targeted approaches to reaching all students and their families.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
10620420000000|Burrel Union Elementary|6|During the Spring of 2019, we provided our 5th through 8th grade students with the California Healthy Kids Survey. Unfortunately, there was a minor glitch in the surveys for 7th and 8th grades and we did not receive the results of these grade level surveys. The results we reviewed included 5th and 6th grades only. Results demonstrated a high percentage in School Engagement and Supports with an average score of 75%, lowest in meaningful participation. School Safety was also scored high, however about 50% of our students felt rumors were spread about them. In the area of School Disciplinary Environment, an average of 73% felt they were treated with respect. In regards to Substance Use and Mental Health, very few students used any drugs or alcohol and sadness was rarely experienced by 5th graders, however, sadness was at about 29% in 6th grade.  After reviewing our results, we have provided more opportunities for student input on school activities and ideas. Teachers were encouraged to hold class meetings at least once a trimester to gather student input on activities. Student Council meets twice a month and invites Administration to attend and listen to student ideas. Most of the “mean rumors” spread about students happens on social media. This year, we will be providing parents with education about monitoring social media and talking to their children in a positive and proactive manner. With our school being in its 4th year of Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS), it was very encouraging that our students felt they were treated fairly and with respect. Although the survey did not include our 7th and 8th graders, it was still nice to see a low use of drugs and alcohol for our students. Our psychologist was increased from 1.5 days to 2 days a week and we will be receiving the support of a clinician for 1 day weekly. We believe the use of our social emotional learning curriculum and mindfulness strategies have been very beneficial to our students and their social emotional being. We hope to survey our students again in the Spring of 2020.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
54718370000000|Burton Elementary|6|During the 18-19 school year the district conducted a survey of our students in multiple grades in each of those grade spans.  The overall result from the survey data demonstrated that 74.7% of our students Agreed or Strongly Agreed with feeling safe at school.  When we further looked at the data we discovered that while this was valuable aggregate data that we needed additional details about this in order to make it actionable.  However, through looking at the results we determined that the survey itself would not allow us to get adequate data in order to make it actionable at each of our sites.  As a result of this data review the district has implemented a number of changes for our schools.  We have dedicated more funding in our LCAP to a Multi Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) that works to address not only the academic needs of our students but also the social emotional and behavioral needs of those students.  This implementation was in addition to the work the district has previously done in the area of school climate and provides our students and sites additional resources that they might not otherwise have available to them.  Overall we believe that long term the implementation of MTSS across the district will provide our students the best climate for their educational experience.|2019-10-21|The survey administered in the 2019-2020 school year will allow us to better disaggregate the data by our student groups which will allow us to take better actions as a result of the data.|Met|2019
04100410000000|Butte County Office of Education|6|BCOE schools use a research based PBIS School Climate student survey. The data is based on a four-point rubric.  The goal for all BCOE schools is to maintain an average overall climate survey rating of at least 85%. Winter 18-19 Overall scores by school:  Come Back: 88% (+/-0) BCCS elementary: 87% (+7%) BCCS middle/ high school: 69% (-4%) Hearthstone elementary: 83% (+1%) Hearthstone middle/high: 77% (+/-0%) Special Ed elementary: No student responses Special Ed middle/ high school: 70% (-8%) Table Mountain School: 87% (+1%) The LEA and school administrative teams meet monthly and conduct PLC meetings to review data and identify next steps. In addition, the administrative team conducted a root cause analysis and determined sites need to work on increasing student engagement. The LEA is supporting this work by providing student centered coaches, push in professional learning opportunities, and using staff to create a system of instruction for students in the county office run programs that is standards aligned, based on student self-interest and provides an option for community connections/ engagement.   Sites are formatively assessing climate status throughout the year with empathy interviews or other quick measures of student views on the school climate.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
47736840000000|Butte Valley Unified|6|Our school district administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in the spring of 2018.    7th grade student sample size was below 10, so no results were reported.  Within our 9th and 11th grade students, 90% have moderate to strong levels of school connectedness, 80% have moderate to strong academic motivation, and 86% have moderate to strong parent involvement in our school.  Students feel that their school is clean and safe.  One of our challenges is cyber bullying.  31% of our 9th graders and 19% of our 11th graders say that they have been victim of cyber bullying.  While most of our cyber bullying happens outside of school hours, it carries over to the school day.  Cyber bullying has become a crime that can be hard to prove.  Technology has become increasing sophisticated and anonymous.  We continue to address this issue and keep our law enforcement in the loop, as needed.  Another challenge is mental health services.  We live in a very rural area where local services are not readily available.  The survey shows that 46% of our 9th graders and 31% of our 11th graders have had chronic sad or hopeless feelings over the past 12 months, and that 23% of our 9th graders and 31% of our 11th graders have seriously considered attempting suicide.  These are alarming statistics.  We are working with our local probation department and county office of education to our support students and staff.  Both administrators have been to some mental health training.  We have a district counselor who has her PPS credential.  Some of her assignment revolves around supporting our students with mental health issues at the elementary and high schools.  The county office of education has a behaviorist, but he services the southern and eastern parts of the county, so his time is very limited.  We have a new mental health counselor at our local clinic across the street, but she can only service our high school students.  We continue to pursue any avenues of support we can find for helping our staff and students.  We will be administering the test again in the spring of 2020.  When we receive the results, we will analyze the data and report it to the Governing Board.  Using the data, we will develop a plan to address areas of need in regards to the survey.  To support our students, we use the Positive Prevention curriculum in our 8th grade classroom and our high school health class.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
54755230114348|Butterfield Charter|6|Butterfield used the California Healthy Kids (CHKS) survey in 2017-2018 as a baseline to attain parents’ input. The survey content overview is as follows: Characteristics of parent respondents and their children; Student supports and school conditions (learning environment, school discipline, cultural sensitivity, opportunities for meaningful student participation); How welcoming the school is to parents; The scope and nature of parental involvement in school activities and decision-making; The scope and nature of school communications to parents; Parental involvement in their children’s education; and Parental perceptions of student risk behaviors (how much of a problem at the school. Butterfield used the California Healthy Kids survey in 2017-2018 as a baseline to attain students’ input in 9th and 11th grade.The  questions  are  aligned  with  the  staff  and  parent  surveys  so  information  obtained  across  these  three  stakeholder groups can be compared. In 2018-19 the total number of student respondents were 97 students out of 142. Overall School Connectedness Scales for Butterfield averaged 67% of “Strongly agree”  & “Agree”. The 9th & 11th grade students results for perceived safety at school was an average of 85% for “Very Safe” & “Safe”.   All students need to feel safe and connected to school so that they continue to attend school, behave appropriately, and attain a high school graduation diploma. Overall in the district HKS survey 92% of all parents, 73% of elementary students, and 60% of high school students feel that school is a safe place an average of 75%. The following information was also obtained from the Dashboard data of Fall 2018 to report district-wide student connectedness: Attendance rate = 94%, Suspension rate = 6%, and Expulsion rate = 0.6% and Graduation rate of 84.6%. Butterfield/PUSD will continue to provide personalized learning plans and transition process to give students the opportunity to link academics to their career interest through assessment of the graduate outcome rubric, interest inventories and enrollment in career exploration electives. Butterfield/PUSD will continue to  implement academic social, and behavioral interventions, transition programs, mentoring, early intervention programs, and after school activities to support students' connectedness to school. PUSD school campuses have been secured and enclosed by a fence. All schools have functional security cameras and shade structures. PUSD has hired additional personnel counselors, psychologists, nurses and behavioral intervention specialist to meet the social & emotional needs of all students. Additionally, Butterfield provides small group counseling and offers the BASE and PASS programs.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
47702010000000|Butteville Union Elementary|6|The school climate of Butteville Elementary is overall a positive according to our school student survey. Reflect on key learning: The student survey revealed that over 95% of students believe that Butteville Elementary provides a good education.  Seventy-one percent of students indicated that they enjoy learning at BUESD.  Eighty-one percent of students state that they have an adult at BUESD they can speak with when they have a problem or issue and 85% of the students feel safe at school. Use: To maintain a positive and safe environment, Butteville has initiated the following training, practices, or programs. First, the school seeks to maintain small classroom sizes by using the following guidelines: Kinder at 20 students, 1-3rd grades 22 students, and 4th-8th grade 25 student targets. The school provides small group instruction through normal classroom and RTI time to give students additional academic assistance.  Secondly, Butteville is implementing a Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) program at the school. Teachers and administrator are attending PBIS training and classified and certificated staff are actively giving input into the PBIS implementation during collaboration meetings and professional development training. Instructional aides are attending paraprofessional training, including learning restorative practice systems, to improve job performance when working with students. Staff continues to work with a Hearts Program that targets students that need additional intervention, including a check-in/check-out support, for educational and emotional well-being. Thirdly, our enrichment program of music, performing arts, sewing, and gardening provide alternative curriculum for academic experience and growth. And lastly, an additional counselor beyond the school psychologist, visits campus every Friday for extra counseling services as needed.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
15633700000000|Buttonwillow Union Elementary|6|Annually, students, parents, and staff are given surveys that include questions regarding school safety and climate. 2018-19 results are as follows: According to the California School Dashboard the district earned a Blue ranking for Chronically Absent with a status of 4.2% and a 9.6% decline.A blue ranking was also earned for Suspension Rate for a status of .3% and .8% decrease. Referrals and suspensions remain at or below 5%. Based on student survey's 77.7% enjoy school, 78.3% feel safe at school, and 90.3% feel academic expectations are high. Based on parent survey's 87% said their children enjoy school, 85% feel the school provides a safe environment, 80% believe their children are being prepared for success in High School, College, and/or their career. 100% of staff agree that students and staff are safe at school. Our Physical Fitness scores exceeded the county and state averages. While our discipline data remains low, there was an increase in referrals and suspensions. We are revisiting PBIS implementation to ensure we are providing a positive and safe environment for all of our students.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
07616630000000|Byron Union Elementary|6|Students in Byron Union Elementary School District in grades 5 and 7 completed the California Healthy Kids Survey in May 2019.  Key learnings from the survey demonstrate students feel safe at school, and that students feel adults at the school hold high behavior and academic expectations for them.  A small percentage of students attended afterschool activities.  About half of the students expressed they felt student behavior at school was positive.  Approximately ninety percent of students reported that they missed school rarely or not at all during the school year.|2019-10-24|School climate transformation is a main focus in the Byron Union School District.  The Board of Education, school leaders, and teachers has taken substantial measures to improve the learning environment for all students to feel safe, valued, and academically challenged.  The district has implemented the social-emotional program Choose Love in all grades, created a School Climate committee that includes all stakeholders, and begun training to implement the program Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) throughout all school sites.|Met|2019
37680490132506|Cabrillo Point Academy|6|We strive to do all we can to support student learning and their well-being.   To gain a better understanding of what our school communities appreciate about our schools, and where they think we can continue to improve, we administer parent/student school climate surveys, facilitate regular parent meetings, invite feedback via a link sent by email or accessed through our website and social media channels. Survey results indicate that over 90% of parents agree or strongly agree that their children are receiving a good education, feel safe and connected to the school, and effective academic support.  Further, over 85% of students agree or strongly agree that they look forward to school each day, find their teachers engaging, and feel connected especially through educational field trips, enrichment activities, and other social events. Nonetheless, we are consistently looking for ways to further improve students’ perceptions that they are cared for and capable.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
41688900000000|Cabrillo Unified|6|Cabrillo Unified School District administered multiple climate surveys to provide a valid measure of school safety and connectedness: Panorama Survey (712 respondents) and California Healthy Kids Survey (177 respondents).  Our objective was to have a minimum of 59% of students feel they belong to their school.  Below you will find our key learnings: 48% of students are excited about their classes 70% of students feel the energy at their school is positive 59% of students find the things learned in class interesting 86% of students think school will be useful in the future 90% of students thought school will be useful in the future  Our goal for next year is to increase our students' feeling of belonging to 75%.  After reviewing and interpreting data, although we have various other strengths, an area of improvement is to support students with feeling safe at school. In order to address this gap, we have implemented a district wide Social Emotional Learning curriculum to address this barrier.  Cabrillo Unified School District has engaged in a district wide adoption of the Multi Tiered System of Support (MTSS) framework to address the whole child, inclusive of Social, Cultural and Behavior supports. This focus has been embedded as a goal in our Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP), Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA), and our district wide professional development plan. Using our LCAP surveys and professional development surveys, we will engage in a cycle of continuous improvement by analyzing our data to determine if we see improvement using qualitative data around students' social emotional learning and sense of belonging at school.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37679910000000|Cajon Valley Union|6|Cajon Valley Union School District uses two different assessments to measure school safety and connectedness, 1) the Gallup Student Poll and 2) the California Healthy Kids Survey. The CHKS was administered in the 2018-2019 school year and includes grade levels 5th and 7th-grade students at all Cajon Valley Sites. Our Gallup Student poll is administered annually and includes grade levels ranging between 5-8 at all Cajon Valley Sites.  The key findings from the 2018-19  Gallup Survey indicate “high” scores in the domains of “engagement” and “hope”. These domains align with safety and connectedness. Cajon Valley students scored above the U.S. overall average in the domain of “entrepreneurial aspiration”. Results from our 2019 Gallup Survey are in the process of being analyzed and will be used to further conversations and inform decisions about student safety and connectedness.   According to the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey, the majority of 7th grade and 5th-grade students feel a high or moderate level of school connectedness. When disaggregated by gender, there is no significant difference. When disaggregated by subgroup, the percentage of high connectedness varied.   In regards to “safety”, on the California Healthy Kids Survey, the overall perception of the school as “safe” was 58% for 7th-grade students and 75% for 5th-grade students. On the Gallup survey, in 2019, 74% of students in grades 5,6,7 & 8 reported feeling “safe” at school.    Overall, data indicates that the majority of students report a sense of safety and connectedness. There are no significant variations between gender or grade level.  Based on the Gallup data, positive indicators show some decrease in the middle school grades.   Based on this data, social-emotional learning remains a district focus for the 2019-20 school year. School sites continue to implement a social-emotional curriculum, in conjunction with the World of Work curriculum, to support all students in feeling safe and connected to our schools.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647336016240|Calabash Charter Academy|6|Calabash Charter Academy utilizes The Los Angeles Unified School District's School Report Card as our School Climate Survey to measure student perceptions in 3rd, 4th and 5th grades of school safety and connectedness. 84% of students agree/strongly agree that they are happy to be at this school. 83% of students agree/strongly agree that rules in this school are made clear to students  83% of the students agree/strongly agree that teachers care if I'm absent from school  87% of the students agree/strongly agree that school grounds are safe.  86% of the students agree/strongly agree that adults at this school respond to bullying.  To build a safe, respectful and caring environment, the school implements the LAUSD School Wide Positive Behavior Intervention and Support Program by systematically teaching desired behaviors in tandem with an incentive program for kindness, respect and helpfulness. Students look forward to and enjoy the weekly announcements highlighting students who have been “caught” being helpful, kind, respectful, and responsible. To further build community, the school collaborates with the PTO to organize community events for school and community participation.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
05100580000000|Calaveras County Office of Education|6|Students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey in December of 2018; this includes all grade levels 7-12. 43% of students reported they agree or strongly agree that they experience school connectedness. This is an increase of 7% from the 2017-2018 survey. Students report that 46% either feel very safe or feel safe at school. This is also an increase of 7% from the previous year. In addition, no students report that they have missed school because they felt like they were being bullied or mistreated at school. No students reported that no one cares about them at school or no one notices when they are not in school.  Due to the nature of the program at Calaveras River Academy, student enrollment fluctuates and many of the students who participated in this survey no longer attend. The challenge is to make this data relevant by looking for trends to influence continuous improvement efforts. Staff are aware of this challenge and spend time creating relationships with individual students. Programmatic growth is hard to measure with hard data; however, staff really depend on the feel of the campus environment to determine successes and challenges. These change daily based on who is enrolled and what those students have experienced in their home life.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
05615640000000|Calaveras Unified|6|In the Fall of 2018, CUSD administered a local survey to 5th grade students.  80% of students reported having a teacher who they could talk to about academic and social emotional challenges; 83% reported that their teachers make learning fun with 85% of them stating that they "learn a lot."  Approximately 80% of students reported feeling safe at school while 20% reported "neutrall" in that category.  84% of students reported feeling like they belong at school with 13% of students reported as "neutral."  We have two elementary schools who have implemented the Second Step program focusing on social emotional learning.  In the Fall  of 2018, the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to students in grades 7, 9 and 11.  About 86% of the students within those grade levels completed the survey.  At the middle school (grade 7), the overall School Climate Index has been declining (2016-294 with a 48th%ile ranking in CA to 2019-259 with a 23%ile ranking amongst CA schools), although the overall score has remained at 259 for the past two years).  At the high school level (grades 9 and 11), the overall School Climate index fell from (2018-256 to 2019-183 with a 17%ile ranking to a 1% ranking). There is a notable area of strength for the middle school in the area of overall low violence and substance use with an overall score of 271 which surpasses the high of 267 on 2016.  Other notable areas of relative strength at the middle school level are low physical/emotional violence and substance abuse, low harassment and bullying and low substance use at school.  Using the entirety of the data summarized above, CUSD is in its second year of Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) tiered implementation as part of our K-12 work with the CA Multi Tiered Systems of Support work.  Thus far, using the Tiered Fidelity Inventory at all of our school sites, we have noted a high rate of consistency of implementation of PBIS Tier 1.|2019-10-22|CUSD is currently in the development stage of identifying short (1-3 years) and long term (3-5 years) objectives to improve its overall culture and climate to best ensure overall student academic and social growth: Short Term:  Increased or improved services for ALL students; strategies that effectively support student success; leverage resources, and the development and implementation of multi-tiered, evidence-based, data-driven, district-wide, school-wide supports for academic, behavior, and social-emotional learning. Long term goals/outcomes:  decreases in suspension and expulsion rates, decrease in behavior referrals, decrease in special education referrals, decrease in chronic absenteeism, decrease of incidents of bullying and harassment, decrease in drop out rates leading to increased attendance, student engagement, and overall student academic achievement.|Met|2019
13630990000000|Calexico Unified|6|Calexico Unified School District administered the Healthy Kids Survey on February 2019. We received 2409 Responses. Elementary: 401 (5th grade) Secondary: 2008 (7th, 9th, 11th, NT). 74% (6% increase from 2017),  of the 5th graders 66% (0% increase from 2017) of the 7th graders, 56% (1% increase from 2017) of the 9th graders, 56% (6% increase from 2017) of the 11th graders and 57% (11% increase from 2017) of NT students indicated a connectedness to school. 67% (8% increase from 2017) of the 5th graders, 64% (23% increase from 2017) of the 7th graders, 61% (31% increase from 2017) of the 9th graders, 57% (29% increase from 2017) of the 11th graders and 57% (23% increase from 2017) of NT students indicated having caring adult relationships. 79% (2% decrease from 2017) of the 5th grader, 67% (3% decrease from 2017) of the 7th graders, 48% (16% decrease from 2017) of the 9th graders, 52% (9% decrease from 2017) of the 11th graders and 60% (6% increase from 2017) of NT students perceived school as very safe or safe. Our Governing Board and District Safety Committee has made student safety a priority. The District has taken numerous measures to create a safe learning environment including stationing a School Resource Officer at Calexico High School and securing an additional SRO to support the rest of the sites. CUSD continues to employs over 50 campus securities at the secondary sites and over 90 student supervision assistant aides at the elementary sites. All school sites have secured the main office entrance, rerouting visitors to main office, and a visitor management system have been installed at every school site. The District has also implemented Catapult, a mass emergency and crisis alert system, to better communicate with site staff, district staff and law enforcement in real time and account for students and staff in a more efficient manner. Schools have implemented programs such as Character Counts, Conscious Discipline and 7 Habits of Highly Effective Students, The Leader in Me, and AVID to foster positive climate change to produce exceptional results in the academic, social, emotional and character development. More recently, CUSD began its initial phase of implementing A.L.I.C.E., a nationally recognized program that has a proactive set of responses to an active school intruder event, which empowers individuals to utilize human action.  Through summer trainings, we now have nineteen certified A.L.I.C.E. trainers districtwide. CUSD also joined the Sandy Hook Promise on August 22, 2019. On October 15, 2019, fifty-five, CUSD staff members were trained on Threat Assessment & Intervention, a national evidenced-based violence prevention training program researched and developed by Dewey G. Cornell, Ph.D., a forensic clinical psychologist and professor of education at the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia|2019-10-24|Calexico Unified will continue to administer the Healthy Kids Survey to 5th, 7th, 9th, 11th and NT every two years to continue to develop LCAP goals, actions and services to best meet the needs of students. In addition, CUSD is in the process of hiring an MTSS Coordinator to support multi-tier system of supports (MTSS) implementation districtwide and provide training for staff to address school climate and students social and emotional needs.|Met|2019
49753586052369|Cali Calmecac Language Academy|6|As a K-8 charter school we pride ourselves on having a school environment in which students feel connected, heard, appreciated and valued and strive to continuously ensure that we maintain a positive school culture. Via our LCAP student survey, it is reflected that our students do feel that they are valued individuals and that our staff cares for them, supports them, and has their best interests in mind. Below are the main results of our survey that illustrate that our students feel very connected and safe: 75.54% of students who answered the survey agreed, or strongly agreed that they felt connected to school. 88.41% of the students responding to the survey agreed, or strongly agreed that the school if providing a safe and positive learning environment. 80.73% of the students responding to the survey agreed, or strongly agreed that they had at least one trusted adult they would seek out if they had a problem.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
07100740129528|Caliber: Beta Academy|6|We administer the Panorama Education - School Climate and Culture Survey every year. We review results with staff and families through PD and SSCs gets reviewed with our board in June. Overall results in parent engagement are incorporated into our LCAP.   Our overall results are strong. In the Spring of 2019, students rated us positively across almost all categories:  -Rigorous Expectations (question such as “When you feel like giving up on a difficult task, how likely is it that your teachers will make you keep trying? “)  -Cultural and linguistic competence (questions such as “People of different cultural backgrounds, races, or ethnicities get along well at this school”)   -School Safety (questions such as “How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?”   -Teacher-student relationships (questions such as “If you walked into class upset, how many of your teachers would be concerned?”)   -Learning Strategies (questions such as “How confident are you that you can choose an effective strategy to get your schoolwork done well?”)   -Sense of belonging (questions such as “how well do people at your school understand you as a person?”) These results we were on par or above average with the New Schools Invent cohort.|2019-06-04|We measure progress on this Priority in our LCAP annual update process each spring (see LCAP goal #6 re: creating a positive student culture) and present this information to our board during that process.|Met|2019
48705810134262|Caliber: ChangeMakers Academy|6|We administer the Panorama Education - School Climate and Culture Survey every year. We review results with staff and families through PD and SSCs gets reviewed with our board in June. Overall results in parent engagement are incorporated into our LCAP.   Our overall results are strong. In the Spring of 2019, students rated us positively across almost all categories:  Rigorous Expectations (question such as “When you feel like giving up on a difficult task, how likely is it that your teachers will make you keep trying? “) Cultural and linguistic competence (questions such as “People of different cultural backgrounds, races, or ethnicities get along well at this school”)  School Safety (questions such as “How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?” Teacher-student relationships (questions such as “If you walked into class upset, how many of your teachers would be concerned?”)  Learning Strategies (questions such as “How confident are you that you can choose an effective strategy to get your schoolwork done well?”)  Sense of belonging (questions such as “how well do people at your school understand you as a person?”) These results we were on par or above average with the New Schools Invent cohort.|2019-06-04|We measure progress on this Priority in our LCAP annual update process each spring (see LCAP goal #6 re: creating a positive student culture) and present this information to our board during that process.|Met|2019
15633880000000|Caliente Union Elementary|6|There was a leadership transition during the 19-20 SY, but it did not affect overall progress and overall climate among faculty, parents, and students. Moreover, school climate will continue to be a primary focus. Surveys were distributed to parents regarding feeling safe and connected, which results in 100% feedback. Secondly, a survey was distributed to students regarding feeling safe and connectedness, which resulted in 87% feedback. Lastly, a survey was distributed to school staff regarding feelings of safe and connectedness, which resulted in 100% feedback. While it is important that all these key stakeholders feel connected with the school it will remain a priority to maintain this positive accomplishment.|2019-10-07|Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports will be awarded each quarter with a trophy and class picture with the trophy. This will also be be posted on the school website. The classroom party and overall trophy will be awarded at the end of the school year. The district will also monitor security cameras and alarm systems, which are in place to promote a safe school climate.|Met|2019
37680490136747|California Academy of Sports Science|6||||Not Met|2019
10623800136754|California Academy of Sports Science Fresno|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330133884|California Collegiate Charter|6|Findings reported:  CA Collegiate Charter School administered a student survey to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 199 students in grades 6-8 participated, a 75% participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 6 The following are the responses from the student survey.   • 65% mostly/always agree that the school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn.  • 40% are happy to be at this school always/mostly. • 42% feel like they are part of this school always/mostly.   • 58% feel accepted for they who they are at this school always/mostly.  • 54% feel safe at this school always/mostly.  • 49% feel safe in the neighborhood surrounding the school always/mostly.  • 37% stated that kids at this school are kind to each other always/mostly.  • 41% stated that the school provides students with opportunities to be involved in sports, clubs and other extracurricular activities.   The Head of School, Assistant Principal, and school staff will utilize the results of the student survey to improve and expand its social-emotional and character development program, and expand schoolwide support services, communication, that support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.    In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to implement an evidence-based survey in Spring 2020 to students as outlined in the school’s LCAP,|2019-10-30||Met|2019
39686500125849|California Connections Academy @ Ripon|6|N/A|2019-10-22|California Connections Academy @ Ripon does not have any charter goals or outcomes related to this local priority, therefore, under guidance from the State Board of Education, no information needs to be reported for this local indicator. This local indicator is not applicable to California Connections Academy @ Ripon.|Met|2019
42750100138891|California Connections Academy Central Coast|6|N/A|2019-10-22|California Connections Academy Central Coast does not have any charter goals or outcomes related to this local priority, therefore, under guidance from the State Board of Education, no information needs to be reported for this local indicator. This local indicator is not applicable to California Connections Academy Central Coast.|Met|2019
44754320139410|California Connections Academy Monterey Bay|6|N/A|2019-10-22|California Connections Academy Monterey Bay does not have any charter goals or outcomes related to this local priority, therefore, under guidance from the State Board of Education, no information needs to be reported for this local indicator. This local indicator is not applicable to California Connections Academy Monterey Bay.|Met|2019
17640550129601|California Connections Academy North Bay|6|N/A|2019-10-22|California Connections Academy North Bay does not have any charter goals or outcomes related to this local priority, therefore, under guidance from the State Board of Education, no information needs to be reported for this local indicator. This local indicator is not applicable to California Connections Academy North Bay.|Met|2019
30664640106765|California Connections Academy Southern California|6|N/A|2019-10-22|California Connections Academy Southern California does not have any charter goals or outcomes related to this local priority, therefore, under guidance from the State Board of Education, no information needs to be reported for this local indicator. This local indicator is not applicable to California Connections Academy Southern California.|Met|2019
54718030112458|California Connections Academy@Central|6|N/A|2019-10-22|California Connections Academy @ Central does not have any charter goals or outcomes related to this local priority, therefore, under guidance from the State Board of Education, no information needs to be reported for this local indicator. This local indicator is not applicable to California Connections Academy @ Central.|Met|2019
53105380125633|California Heritage Youthbuild Academy II|6|CHYBA has now conducted LCAP surveys for the past 3 years that have included questions around school climate and safety.  91 % of students said they feel safe at school (9% disagree and 0% strongly disagree). 86% of students state they feel there is a teacher or other adult at school who cares about them.  91% of students feel that a teacher or other adult at school feel like they will be a success. 91% of parents feel school staff take parents' concerns seriously. Nonetheless, 70% of students state they missed school in a 30 day period for a variety of reasons. Most concerning was that 15% of students said they missed school due to feeling sad, hopeless, etc. and another 42% of students said the cause was due to an issue that we believe our Case Manager or Hill Country Medical Staff could help to resolve. CHYBA will continue to offer the school climate survey annually for all future school years and will add a staff survey as well. CHYBA will work to ensure the survey continues to align with our LCAP goals and the state priority areas. We will also work to improve response rates with the goal of having an overall 70% response rate for all staff, parents/stakeholders, and students in the 19-20 school year. This disaggregated survey data was fundamental in helping CHYBA develop its 19-20 LCAP goals and actions. The most noteworthy revision/actions that have been implemented in the 19-20 LCAP were the following: 1) Community mentors will continue to be matched with students to help create a more positive school climate around academics and connectedness. 2) CHYBA advisors will continue to receive training and support to create more intrinsic layers of feedback and support to help young people accurately identify their current level of success. They will also help students by managing attendance issues and supporting them in making plans for continual improvement with academics, career and job skills, post-secondary plans, mental health issues, and life skills. 3) A variety of electives offered at the site will help more fully engage students in all aspects of CHYBA and thus help students to more fully connect with their future academic, career, and life goals. 4) CHYBA will continue to provide a Case Manager that will connect with students and offer them support in obtaining a variety of support services. 5) CHYBA will partner with Hill Country Rural Community Health Clinic to bring a satellite facility to CHYBA to provide medical and mental health services onsite.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
33672070101170|California Military Institute|6|Areas of strength: 1. High Expectations and caring relationships 2. Overall low violence and substance abuse  Areas of growth: 1. Opportunities for meaningful participation 2. School connectedness  Other indicators: Parents continue to feel welcome to participate at CMI and students continue to feel low levels of bullying or harassment.   LEA Actions: This data indicates that students desire to be heard and have a voice in the decision making process of the school. In addition data indicate that students may not feel as connected to their teachers and the school. The school will provide more resources in order to support student groups such as ASB, WEB and Link Crew. School administration and leadership will provide opportunities to students to provide their input by organizing grade level meetings without any agenda where students can freely speak on any topic of their choosing and provide feedback to staff. Staff will be more intentional about improving relationships with students by attending professional development put on by the “Flippen Group” such as “Capturing kids hearts”.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
34674390111757|California Montessori Project - Capitol Campus|6|CMP continuously explores and develops methods, including surveys, for the learning community to provide feedback to the school administration. CMP encourages all members of its learning community (staff, parents, students) to provide feedback to ensure that CMP administration knows the impact of changes made to the program. Feedback opportunities are provided anonymously and respondents are not asked self-identifying questions in order to encourage open and honest communication.  Surveys administered during the 2018-2019 school year included: • Stakeholder Satisfaction • Student Climate and Safety  Also, during the LCAP process, CMP administration meets with all community groups, including students, parents, credentialed staff and classified staff, to survey perceptions of the CMP program and seeking suggested improvements and/or changes.  These stakeholder meetings are an integral part of the LCAP process as the gathering of community input sets forth the goals and directs the budget for the upcoming years.  In many stakeholder meetings, areas of school climate are brought up and feedback is provided on different manners to make improvements.  These perspectives on the CMP program are greatly valued as every stakeholder is a partner in the education process.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
34673140111732|California Montessori Project - Elk Grove Campus|6|CMP continuously explores and develops methods, including surveys, for the learning community to provide feedback to the school administration. CMP encourages all members of its learning community (staff, parents, students) to provide feedback to ensure that CMP administration knows the impact of changes made to the program. Feedback opportunities are provided anonymously and respondents are not asked self-identifying questions in order to encourage open and honest communication.  Surveys administered during the 2018-2019 school year included: • Stakeholder Satisfaction • Student Climate and Safety  Also, during the LCAP process, CMP administration meets with all community groups, including students, parents, credentialed staff and classified staff, to survey perceptions of the CMP program and seeking suggested improvements and/or changes.  These stakeholder meetings are an integral part of the LCAP process as the gathering of community input sets forth the goals and directs the budget for the upcoming years.  In many stakeholder meetings, areas of school climate are brought up and feedback is provided on different manners to make improvements.  These perspectives on the CMP program are greatly valued as every stakeholder is a partner in the education process.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
34674470112169|California Montessori Project-San Juan Campuses|6|CMP continuously explores and develops methods, including surveys, for the learning community to provide feedback to the school administration. CMP encourages all members of its learning community (staff, parents, students) to provide feedback to ensure that CMP administration knows the impact of changes made to the program. Feedback opportunities are provided anonymously and respondents are not asked self-identifying questions in order to encourage open and honest communication.  Surveys administered during the 2018-2019 school year included: • Stakeholder Satisfaction • Student Climate and Safety  Also, during the LCAP process, CMP administration meets with all community groups, including students, parents, credentialed staff and classified staff, to survey perceptions of the CMP program and seeking suggested improvements and/or changes.  These stakeholder meetings are an integral part of the LCAP process as the gathering of community input sets forth the goals and directs the budget for the upcoming years.  In many stakeholder meetings, areas of school climate are brought up and feedback is provided on different manners to make improvements.  These perspectives on the CMP program are greatly valued as every stakeholder is a partner in the education process.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
09618380111724|California Montessori Project-Shingle Springs Campus|6|CMP continuously explores and develops methods, including surveys, for the learning community to provide feedback to the school administration. CMP encourages all members of its learning community (staff, parents, students) to provide feedback to ensure that CMP administration knows the impact of changes made to the program. Feedback opportunities are provided anonymously and respondents are not asked self-identifying questions in order to encourage open and honest communication.  Surveys administered to the CMP-Shingle Springs during the 2018-2019 school year were related to: - Additional playground equipment - Optional lunch program offerings - Annual fundraising endeavors - Campus safety needs - Professional Development staff input and feedback - PBIS student expectations - Modifications to the School Calendar - Stakeholder Satisfaction - Student Climate and Safety  Also, during the LCAP process, CMP administration meets with all community groups, including students, parents, credentialed staff and classified staff, to survey perceptions of the CMP program and seeking suggested improvements and/or changes.  These stakeholder meetings are an integral part of the LCAP process as the gathering of community input sets forth the goals and directs the budget for the upcoming years.  In many stakeholder meetings, areas of school climate are brought up and feedback is provided on different manners to make improvements.  These perspectives on the CMP program are greatly valued as every stakeholder is a partner in the education process.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
37754160132472|California Pacific Charter - San Diego|6|Data: Parent Input Survey Participation with students in student groups: English Learner (EL) 31.5%, Low Socioeconomic (LI) 47%, Student with Disability (SWD) 10.5%,  N/A 12% .  Parent Participant Ethnicity: White 52%, Hispanic/Latino 22%, Two or More 16%, Af American 5%, Asian 5% Meaning: Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and the school's building partnerships with parents. Use:  Collaborate on research-based strategies to encourage participation of all parent groups.   Parent Input Survey Data:  Overall % in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of Students 91.1% Positive School Climate and Connectedness 100% Establishing Connections and Partnerships 100% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 100% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 100% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 100% Meaning: Strength in satisfaction with the school. 91.1% Improving the academic achievement of students based on parent’s feeling that their student sets personal academic achievement goals and works independently to achieve them. Use: Teacher collaboration on research-based strategies to teach independent goal setting and study skills.  Student Positive School Climate Survey Data:  Student Participants (47) :  Data: High Expectations: High expectations for students increases confidence and academic performance.  Overall, 97% of the student survey participants feel they are encouraged and motivated to do their best and feel that their teacher believes that they can do good work and encourages them.  School Safety: School safety creates an encouraging environment for students to explore, learn, and grow creatively and academically.  100% surveyed feel safe and comfortable to meet with their teacher to talk about school work; and, 98% feel their teacher listens and  helps them find solutions to concerns. Respectful Climate: Reports emphasize the importance of positive school climate in promoting the skills and knowledge that provide the foundation for lifelong success. 96% feel valued and respected and feel their teacher is supportive and gives them useful feedback on their work.   Caring Adults: Research shows that having one or more caring adults increases the likelihood that students will experience success at school.  92% feel that someone at school will call if they are absent from doing their school work; and, an adult at school that they can speak to if something is bothering them.   Social and Emotional Learning: The process through which students effectively apply the knowledge and skills necessary to set and achieve goals. 93% feel they can independently set goals and work hard to reach them and ask for help from their teacher when needed. Meaning: Strength in student satisfaction with the positive school climate  Use: Research-based strategies on building effective communication during student meetings and teaching independent study skills.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
49707220139048|California Pacific Charter - Sonoma|6|Data: Parent Participation With students in student groups: English Learner (EL) 14.4%, Low Socioeconomic (LI) 42.8%, Student with Disability (SWD) 9.5%,  N/A 33.3%  Parent Participant Ethnicity: White 57.2%, African American 9.5% Hispanic/Latino 9.5%, Two or More 14.3%, Declined to State 9.5%  Meaning: Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and the school's building partnerships with stakeholders. Use: Continue staff collaboration on research-based strategies to invite and encourage all parent groups to engage and participate in partnership opportunities.  Parent Input Data:  Overall % in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of Students 91.2% Positive School Climate and Connectedness 94.5% Establishing Connections and Partnerships 97% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 87% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 93.5% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 93.5%  Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rate with the school program. 91.2% Improving the academic achievement of survey participants perception of their students setting personal academic achievement goals and working independently to achieve them in a timely manner.  Use: Teacher collaboration on research-based strategies to teach independent study skills and the setting of goals and achieving them.  Data:  Student Participants   In student groups:  English Learners (EL) 10.5%, Students w/ Disability (SWD) 21.1%, Low Socio-economic (LI) 15.8%, N/A 5.3%, Did not select 47.3%  100% of the students surveyed feel that their teacher is available to speak with them to provide support and guidance with school work 94.7% of the students surveyed feel that the curriculum provides challenging grade level instruction and assessment of their academic progress 80% of the students surveyed feel that the curriculum and instruction are engaging and they are able to complete their coursework on time. 100% of the students surveyed feel that their teacher cares about their education and is committed to helping them succeed. 100% of the students surveyed feel safe and welcome to meet with their teacher to discuss their progress. 100% of the students surveyed feel satisfied with their school 100% of the students surveyed feel that the school does a great job communicating with them 84% of the students surveyed feel that there is additional support for their academic or developmental needs 100% of the students surveyed feel that if they have a problem, there is someone at school they can talk to  Meaning: Strength in the overall satisfaction with the school program. Review engaging curriculum and instruction for student’s ability to complete their work on time and additional academic support. Use: Teacher collaboration and training for research based strategies for independent study skills and additional academic support to support student engagement and completion of coursework.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
51714150132761|California Prep Sutter 8-12|6||||Not Met|2019
51714150132753|California Prep Sutter K-7|6||||Not Met|2019
19644690134858|California School of the Arts - San Gabriel Valley|6|An annual end-of-year survey is administered to students at all grade levels and to parents and teachers.  Results are reported back to Board of Trustees every August.  Questions are asked regarding our counseling program, our academic program, our arts programs, special education, and the mission, vision and climate of the school.    For the 2018-2019 school year, our overall survey results indicated that students, parents and teachers feel strongly that our school community is welcoming and inclusive.  Our survey results indicate, however, that we can improve on our communication between teachers and families in both our academic programs and conservatory programs.  Parents and students indicate through survey data that they sometimes feel that they are not well-informed about progress in academic and arts programs.|2019-08-21|A strength of the California School of the Arts-San Gabriel Valley is our school climate.  Over our first two years, survey results, results of conversations and meetings with students, parents and teachers both formal and informal have indicated high satisfaction with the climate and environment of this campus.|Met|2019
36678920134247|California STEAM San Bernardino|6||||Not Met|2019
42750100134866|California STEAM Santa Barbara|6||||Not Met|2019
49707220136465|California STEAM Sonoma II|6||||Not Met|2019
10623800138354|California Vanguard Academy - Fresno|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19650940112706|California Virtual Academy @ Los Angeles|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  92% of students feel safe at school 90% feel teachers care about student success 80% feel the school promotes academic success 88% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-03||Met|2019
37684036120893|California Virtual Academy @ San Diego|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  90% of students feel safe at school 91% feel teachers care about student success 85% feel the school promotes academic success 85% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
39686270127191|California Virtual Academy @ San Joaquin|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  92% of students feel safe at school 91% feel teachers care about student success 80% feel the school promotes academic success 88% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-11||Met|2019
49707970107284|California Virtual Academy @ Sonoma|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  93% of students feel safe at school 89% feel teachers care about student success 82% feel the school promotes academic success 82% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
10623310137661|California Virtual Academy at Fresno|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  95% of students feel safe at school 86% feel teachers care about student success 75% feel the school promotes academic success 90% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter.  The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-09-05||Met|2019
16638750112698|California Virtual Academy at Kings|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  100% of students feel safe at school 100% feel teachers care about student success 91% feel the school promotes academic success 91% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-04||Met|2019
15636280137687|California Virtual Academy at Maricopa|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  96% of students feel safe at school 81% feel teachers care about student success 87% feel the school promotes academic success 83% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-03||Met|2019
51714150129007|California Virtual Academy at Sutter|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  93% of students feel safe at school 95% feel teachers care about student success 84% feel the school promotes academic success 93% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-04||Met|2019
41689160112284|California Virtual Academy San Mateo|6|In 2017-18, the LEA created a survey based upon the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in a virtual school setting Students and parents in grades 5, 7, and 9 are surveyed with this tool yearly. Survey results from Spring 2018 indicate the following:  86% of students feel safe at school 93% feel teachers care about student success 83% feel the school promotes academic success 83% believe the school fosters an appreciation of differences and diversity  Respondents indicated a need for more service-oriented projects and outings in the community and opportunities to direct their own learning. In response, a service-learning course was implemented for students in grades 9-12 and service-learning opportunities are being provided school wide each quarter. The LEA will continue to survey 5th, 7th and 9th grade students to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.|2019-06-07||Met|2019
13631070000000|Calipatria Unified|6|Calipatria USD established the June, 2017 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in Grades 4, 7, 9 and 11 as the base year data for School Climate (Priority 6). For June, 2019, the results show an increased improvement across a majority of the selected indicators targeting feeling safe at school and reporting high levels of school connectedness.    Feeling safe at school;  Grade 4 reports 90% ; Grade 7 reports 74%; Grade 9 reports 68% and Grade 11 reports 74%(#) Feeling connected;  Grade 4 reports 71% ; Grade 7 reports 70%; Grade 9 reports 64% and Grade 11 reports 65   Across the grades and subgroups, no responses was less than 60%.   Students in the elementary/middle grades have more favorable responses, while high school students indicate more students are displaying some concern with safety and connectedness.   The LCAP Parent survey indicated 87.3% of parent respondents Agree or Strongly Agree that their child’s school provides a safe and caring learning environment.  Staff also reported increased opportunities to support students with social emotional and trauma informed training has supported their direct interactions with students.   As such, the Calipatria USD met the criteria for this indicator.|2019-10-14|Calipatria USD has met the annual improvement on Local Climate.  Student responses on the California Healthy Kids Survey show an improvement over the 2017 results. Though there were some grade levels that decreased slightly, the overall analysis indicates that Calipatria USD is providing a safe and engaging learning environment.  In addition, parents and staff are reporting positive outcomes in the arena of a safe and caring learning environment.|Met|2019
28662410000000|Calistoga Joint Unified|6|Calistoga Elementary School (CES) and Calistoga Junior/Senior High School (CJSHS) administered a local survey to measure the sense of school connectedness and safety from students and parents. The 2018-19 survey results will serve as a baseline indicator:  1. Students feel supported at school a. CES students: 64% responded “always or often” b. CJSHS students: 66% responded “always or often”  2. Staff treats all students with respect a. CES students: 84% responded “strongly agree or agree” b. CES parents: 89% responded “strongly agree or agree” c. CJSHS students: 85% responded “strongly agree or agree” d. CJSHS parents: 95% responded “strongly agree or agree”  3. School is a safe place for students  a. CES students: 83% responded “strongly agree or agree” b. CES parents: 88% responded “strongly agree or agree” c. CJSHS students: 83% responded “strongly agree or agree” d. CJSHS parents: 90% responded “strongly agree or agree”  4. Schools effectively handle student discipline a. CES students: 68% responded “strongly agree or agree” b. CES parents: 79% responded “strongly agree or agree” c. CJSHS students: 65% responded “strongly agree or agree” d. CJSHS parents: 90% responded “strongly agree or agree”  The data indicates that the majority of students at the elementary and junior/senior high school levels feel safe and school. They also receive support from teachers and feel respected. There is a discrepancy, however, between parent and student response in regard to effective means of discipline.  The district will be expanding the implementation of Restorative Practices to include the CJSHS. Staff, students and parents will be trained in the practices in the 2019-20 school year to continue to improve school climate.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
19647336016265|Calvert Charter for Enriched Studies|6|Calvert Charter for Enriched Studies administered the 2017-2018 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to fourth and fifth graders. The participation rate for this survey was 85%. The following questions pertain to school climate and the percentage of students indicating “All of the Time” and “Most of the Time” are noted next to the question: • Are you happy to be at this school? 88% (3% higher than the District) • Do you feel like you are part of this school? 86% (5% higher than the District) • Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 81% • Do you feel safe at this school? 90% (9% higher than the District) • Do adults at this school treat students with respect? 79%  Most students responded positively to the questions on the survey. 56% of fourth and fifth graders indicated that students know how they are expected to act. In an effort to address this issue, Calvert Charter has implemented a variety of strategies to inform students and parents of behavior expectations, as well as the rewards and consequences for their actions. We are also in the initial stages of implementing Restorative Justice practices at our school.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
56725460115105|Camarillo Academy of Progressive Education|6|CAPE administered the California Healthy Kids Survey on a voluntary basis to all students in grades 5 and 7, all faculty and staff members and parents who have students in grades 5 and/or 7.  Within the 5th and 7th grade surveys from students, CAPE scored high with caring adults at school and high academic expectations in school but had 21% (only low reported) for meaningful participation at school.  This is an area where CAPE will look to include more opportunities for student stakeholders to meaningfully participate in their own education and the improvement of CAPE as a school (things like deciding school activities, student generated ideas, solving school problems).  Students in 7th grade did score higher levels of contributions to decision making than those in 5th grade.  All students reported that they get to do interesting activities at school.  Students reported that teachers generally care about them, listen to them and make an effort to get to know them.  And 92% reported that CAPE teachers expected their students to do their best all the time while at school.  CAPE believes strongly in the partnership of education between home and school.  The parent survey showed that 96% of parents felt that CAPE allows input and welcomes parent contributions and 97% feel that CAPE encourages them to be an active partner with the school in educating their child. CAPE added the following programs to our school year after looking at data:  family fitness fun (a series to include families in outside activities), middle school team building (a series that gets the middle school students out of the classroom to do team building activities with administration and teachers) and CAPE cares (a community service project to help those in the community with needs).|2019-09-23||Met|2019
43693850000000|Cambrian|6|PBIS School Climate Survey - Spring 2019: All students in Grades 3-8.  Number of Students1841 Percentage of students in grades 3-8 who responded “Often” or “Always”.  Survey Questions (Responses from 2018 to 2019) & Change - I like the school. (64% to 70%) + 6% - I feel like I do well in school. (73% to 76%) +3% - My school wants me to do well. (89% to 90%) +1% - My school has clear rules for behavior. (89% to 89%) 0% - Teachers treat me with respect. (89% to 89%) 0% - Good behavior is noticed at my school. (63% to 67%) +4% - I get along with other students. (80% to 78%) -2% - I feel safe at school. (81% to 81%) 0% - Students treat each other well. (69% to 64%) -5% - There is an adult who will help me if I need it. (78% to 81%) 3%  Based on the results of the survey, the CSD staff will be using the data to discuss areas of improvement.  The following are actions that staff will be implementing in the 2018-19 school year:  - Review the results of the school climate survey with all staff and identify areas of improvement where the survey results in less than 80% of students responded "often" or "always". - Staff will also share and discussed overall students' results of the survey with students to better understand our students' needs and what actions or support staff and sites can improve or change. - Staff will administer a pre and post-assessment of the changes and monitor the progress of the changes as they relate to students' perceptions of school climate.    Cambrian School District has been implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS).  A key strategy of the PBIS process is prevention.  The PBIS model is a research-based strategy that is supported by the state of California and the federal Department of Education. The 3-tiered approach reduces problem behavior as a barrier to student achievement. We only have 180 days each year to advance academic progress, so instructional time is very valuable. Research shows that schools following the PBIS model recover thousands of hours of instructional time and, on average, four days of student instruction per year.|2019-10-02|Keeping our students and employees safe and secure while at school is our highest priority. We work diligently to maintain a positive culture in our schools where students are free from bullying, isolation, racism, and intolerance, and practice open two-way communication and problem-solving with their peers and adults. We also work to maintain healthy schools that serve nutritious meals and offer classroom environments that are free from safety or health risks.  Cambrian School District will continue to provide a supportive, orderly and purposeful environment so that students can reach their full academic potential.|Met|2019
19647336117667|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy|6|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy partners with Panorama Education to administer a student survey twice annually, once in the fall and once in the spring.  The survey is a research-backed instrument designed and tested to gather feedback students.  The survey is nationally benchmarked so it allows us to analyze our data on a macro level, across our district (grades 3-12), and at the individual school level. The survey is designed as a series of questions with responses grouped according to themes, to help us measure an array of aspects of student attitudes and perceptions.  The themes included are:  • School Belonging measures how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community.  • School Climate measures perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school.  • School Engagement measures how attentive and invested students are in school.  • School Mindset measures perceptions of whether students have the potential to change those factors that are central to their performance in school.  • School Safety measures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school. • School Teacher-Student Relationships measures the social connection between teachers and students within and beyond the school.  • School Staff measures the social connection students feel to school staff and engagement in extracurricular activities.   The survey data is reviewed at data meetings with school leadership teams.  The leadership team then reviews the information with their teachers, parents, and students.  The fall data allows schools to make any course corrections/adjustments and the end-of-year data allows us to track any trends, progress, and plan accordingly for the school year.  The data is also presented to the Camino Nuevo Board of Directors to ensure accountability and to help monitor progress.  Over 60% of students across the district responded favorably to staff and teacher interactions and research suggests, stronger student-to-staff/teacher relationships, leads to increases in these indicators and ultimately to student achievement.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, we provided additional professional development to teachers and staff around building positive relationships with students, as a result we saw a slight increase in student responses about staff showing care and responding to their needs. A continued area of growth across the district is school engagement and helping students connect what they are learning in the classroom to broader community interactions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330122861|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy #2|6|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy partners with Panorama Education to administer a student survey twice annually, once in the fall and once in the spring.  The survey is a research-backed instrument designed and tested to gather feedback students.  The survey is nationally benchmarked so it allows us to analyze our data on a macro level, across our district (grades 3-12), and at the individual school level. The survey is designed as a series of questions with responses grouped according to themes, to help us measure an array of aspects of student attitudes and perceptions.  The themes included are:  • School Belonging measures how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community.  • School Climate measures perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school.  • School Engagement measures how attentive and invested students are in school.  • School Mindset measures perceptions of whether students have the potential to change those factors that are central to their performance in school.  • School Safety measures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school. • School Teacher-Student Relationships measures the social connection between teachers and students within and beyond the school.  • School Staff measures the social connection students feel to school staff and engagement in extracurricular activities.   The survey data is reviewed at data meetings with school leadership teams.  The leadership team then reviews the information with their teachers, parents, and students.  The fall data allows schools to make any course corrections/adjustments and the end-of-year data allows us to track any trends, progress, and plan accordingly for the school year.  The data is also presented to the Camino Nuevo Board of Directors to ensure accountability and to help monitor progress.  Over 60% of students across the district responded favorably to staff and teacher interactions and research suggests, stronger student-to-staff/teacher relationships, leads to increases in these indicators and ultimately to student achievement.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, we provided additional professional development to teachers and staff around building positive relationships with students, as a result we saw a slight increase in student responses about staff showing care and responding to their needs. A continued area of growth across the district is school engagement and helping students connect what they are learning in the classroom to broader community interactions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330124826|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy #4|6|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy partners with Panorama Education to administer a student survey twice annually, once in the fall and once in the spring.  The survey is a research-backed instrument designed and tested to gather feedback students.  The survey is nationally benchmarked so it allows us to analyze our data on a macro level, across our district (grades 3-12), and at the individual school level. The survey is designed as a series of questions with responses grouped according to themes, to help us measure an array of aspects of student attitudes and perceptions.  The themes included are:  • School Belonging measures how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community.  • School Climate measures perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school.  • School Engagement measures how attentive and invested students are in school.  • School Mindset measures perceptions of whether students have the potential to change those factors that are central to their performance in school.  • School Safety measures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school. • School Teacher-Student Relationships measures the social connection between teachers and students within and beyond the school.  • School Staff measures the social connection students feel to school staff and engagement in extracurricular activities.   The survey data is reviewed at data meetings with school leadership teams.  The leadership team then reviews the information with their teachers, parents, and students.  The fall data allows schools to make any course corrections/adjustments and the end-of-year data allows us to track any trends, progress, and plan accordingly for the school year.  The data is also presented to the Camino Nuevo Board of Directors to ensure accountability and to help monitor progress.  Over 60% of students across the district responded favorably to staff and teacher interactions and research suggests, stronger student-to-staff/teacher relationships, leads to increases in these indicators and ultimately to student achievement.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, we provided additional professional development to teachers and staff around building positive relationships with students, as a result we saw a slight increase in student responses about staff showing care and responding to their needs. A continued area of growth across the district is school engagement and helping students connect what they are learning in the classroom to broader community interactions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330106435|Camino Nuevo Charter High|6|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy partners with Panorama Education to administer a student survey twice annually, once in the fall and once in the spring.  The survey is a research-backed instrument designed and tested to gather feedback students.  The survey is nationally benchmarked so it allows us to analyze our data on a macro level, across our district (grades 3-12), and at the individual school level. The survey is designed as a series of questions with responses grouped according to themes, to help us measure an array of aspects of student attitudes and perceptions.  The themes included are:  • School Belonging measures how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community.  • School Climate measures perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school.  • School Engagement measures how attentive and invested students are in school.  • School Mindset measures perceptions of whether students have the potential to change those factors that are central to their performance in school.  • School Safety measures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school. • School Teacher-Student Relationships measures the social connection between teachers and students within and beyond the school.  • School Staff measures the social connection students feel to school staff and engagement in extracurricular activities.   The survey data is reviewed at data meetings with school leadership teams.  The leadership team then reviews the information with their teachers, parents, and students.  The fall data allows schools to make any course corrections/adjustments and the end-of-year data allows us to track any trends, progress, and plan accordingly for the school year.  The data is also presented to the Camino Nuevo Board of Directors to ensure accountability and to help monitor progress.  Over 60% of students across the district responded favorably to staff and teacher interactions and research suggests, stronger student-to-staff/teacher relationships, leads to increases in these indicators and ultimately to student achievement.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, we provided additional professional development to teachers and staff around building positive relationships with students, as a result we saw a slight increase in student responses about staff showing care and responding to their needs. A continued area of growth across the district is school engagement and helping students connect what they are learning in the classroom to broader community interactions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330122564|Camino Nuevo Elementary School #3|6|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy partners with Panorama Education to administer a student survey twice annually, once in the fall and once in the spring.  The survey is a research-backed instrument designed and tested to gather feedback students.  The survey is nationally benchmarked so it allows us to analyze our data on a macro level, across our district (grades 3-12), and at the individual school level. The survey is designed as a series of questions with responses grouped according to themes, to help us measure an array of aspects of student attitudes and perceptions.  The themes included are:  • School Belonging measures how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community.  • School Climate measures perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school.  • School Engagement measures how attentive and invested students are in school.  • School Mindset measures perceptions of whether students have the potential to change those factors that are central to their performance in school.  • School Safety measures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school. • School Teacher-Student Relationships measures the social connection between teachers and students within and beyond the school.  • School Staff measures the social connection students feel to school staff and engagement in extracurricular activities.   The survey data is reviewed at data meetings with school leadership teams.  The leadership team then reviews the information with their teachers, parents, and students.  The fall data allows schools to make any course corrections/adjustments and the end-of-year data allows us to track any trends, progress, and plan accordingly for the school year.  The data is also presented to the Camino Nuevo Board of Directors to ensure accountability and to help monitor progress.  Over 60% of students across the district responded favorably to staff and teacher interactions and research suggests, stronger student-to-staff/teacher relationships, leads to increases in these indicators and ultimately to student achievement.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, we provided additional professional development to teachers and staff around building positive relationships with students, as a result we saw a slight increase in student responses about staff showing care and responding to their needs. A continued area of growth across the district is school engagement and helping students connect what they are learning in the classroom to broader community interactions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330127910|Camino Nuevo High #2|6|Camino Nuevo Charter Academy partners with Panorama Education to administer a student survey twice annually, once in the fall and once in the spring.  The survey is a research-backed instrument designed and tested to gather feedback students.  The survey is nationally benchmarked so it allows us to analyze our data on a macro level, across our district (grades 3-12), and at the individual school level. The survey is designed as a series of questions with responses grouped according to themes, to help us measure an array of aspects of student attitudes and perceptions.  The themes included are:  • School Belonging measures how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community.  • School Climate measures perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school.  • School Engagement measures how attentive and invested students are in school.  • School Mindset measures perceptions of whether students have the potential to change those factors that are central to their performance in school.  • School Safety measures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school. • School Teacher-Student Relationships measures the social connection between teachers and students within and beyond the school.  • School Staff measures the social connection students feel to school staff and engagement in extracurricular activities.   The survey data is reviewed at data meetings with school leadership teams.  The leadership team then reviews the information with their teachers, parents, and students.  The fall data allows schools to make any course corrections/adjustments and the end-of-year data allows us to track any trends, progress, and plan accordingly for the school year.  The data is also presented to the Camino Nuevo Board of Directors to ensure accountability and to help monitor progress.  Over 60% of students across the district responded favorably to staff and teacher interactions and research suggests, stronger student-to-staff/teacher relationships, leads to increases in these indicators and ultimately to student achievement.  In the 2018-2019 academic year, we provided additional professional development to teachers and staff around building positive relationships with students, as a result we saw a slight increase in student responses about staff showing care and responding to their needs. A continued area of growth across the district is school engagement and helping students connect what they are learning in the classroom to broader community interactions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
09618460123125|Camino Polytechnic|6|Camino USD administers four CHKS surveys - Elementary 5th and 6th, Secondary 7th and 8th, Staff and Parent.  A total of 217 pages of information this year.  We have administered these every year since 2014 (prior to this these surveys were given every other year to 6th and 8th graders - to better understand and use this data Site Council requested that we administer every year to 5th-8th).   Camino USD breaks up the results into some key areas to better understand the feedback. The main categories we use are: Substance Abuse, School Safety, Academic Motivation, School Connectedness, Meaningful Participation, High Expectations, Caring Adults, and School Supports. The main feedback in each area is as follows: Substance Abuse - not a problem at CUSD, but vaping becoming a concern. School Safety - parents and students feel CUSD is very safe, but staff have concerns. Academic Motivation - all believe almost all of our students are motivated to succeed. School Connectedness - has declined recently, largely due to lack of staff and funding to continue various VAPA programs. Meaningful Participation - students want to be included more, but recognize student leadership has to be more active. High Expectations - very high from all groups. Caring Adults - very high from all groups. School Supports - very high due to strong efforts from CUSD to sustain great support programs. Camino USD continues efforts to implement all of the recommendations in the Master Facility Plan that was largely focused on Health and Safety Improvements. Funding for improvements is the greatest challenge to improve these areas of concern. Camino USD will work hard to find the staff and funds to rebuild our VAPA programs. Camino USD will increase efforts to develop strong student leadership programs through Student Council, Interact Club, Peer Tutoring/Mentoring, and Athletics. Camino USD will encourage student participation in all stakeholder groups.|2019-10-08|Camino is an excellent school and the overwhelming majority of parents and students love attending here. Camino USD invests heavily in its community and the community invests heavily in our school.|Met|2019
09618460000000|Camino Union Elementary|6|Camino USD administers four CHKS surveys - Elementary 5th and 6th, Secondary 7th and 8th, Staff and Parent.  A total of 217 pages of information this year.  We have administered these every year since 2014 (prior to this these surveys were given every other year to 6th and 8th graders - to better understand and use this data Site Council requested that we administer every year to 5th-8th).   Camino USD breaks up the results into some key areas to better understand the feedback. The main categories we use are: Substance Abuse, School Safety, Academic Motivation, School Connectedness, Meaningful Participation, High Expectations, Caring Adults, School Supports. The main feedback in each area is as follows: Substance Abuse - not a problem at CUSD, but vaping becoming a concern. School Safety - parents and students feel CUSD is very safe, but staff have concerns. Academic Motivation - all believe our students are motivated to succeed. School Connectedness - has declined recently, largely due to lack of staff and funding to continue various VAPA programs. Meaningful Participation - students want to be included more, but recognize student leadership has to be more active. High Expectations - very high from all groups. Caring Adults - very high from all groups. School Supports - very high due to strong efforts from CUSD to sustain great support programs. Camino USD continues efforts to implement all of the recommendations in the Master Facility Plan that was largely focused on Health and Safety Improvements. Funding for improvements is greatest challenge to improve these areas of concern. Camino USD will work hard to find staff and funds to rebuild our VAPA programs. Camino USD will increase efforts to develop strong student leadership programs through Student Council, Interact Club, Peer Tutoring and Mentoring, and Athletics. Camino USD will encourage student participation in all stakeholder groups.|2019-10-08|Camino is an excellent school and the overwhelming majority of parents and students love attending here. Camino USD invests heavily in it's community and the community invests heavily in our school.|Met|2019
43693930137273|Campbell School of Innovation|6||||Not Met|2019
43693930000000|Campbell Union|6|Campbell surveys students using the California Health Kids bi-annually. Using a 5 point Likert scale, the key findings related to students’ sense of safety and school connectedness are noted below. Based on the findings, the district leadership plans to increase opportunities for ongoing student feedback (in person, via Superintendent/District Administrator chats and online, via a Thought Exchange activity).    Campbell has identified four elements of high-quality first instruction: Learning Targets, Assessments, Differentiation, and Responsive Teaching.  Under the area of Responsive Teaching, a focus on culturally responsive teaching practices, trauma-informed communities, and positive school climate (PBIS) will support increasing the outcomes around student connectedness as well as feeling safe to take educational risks.  For the 2018-2019 school year, students in grades 3-8 participated in the ThoughtExchange to capture their perceptions of school climate and safety as well as bring to the surface their own responses/topics based on current site needs.  Students Q1: What do you enjoy most about learning at your school? Q2: What would improve your learning at school?  This data is used to develop and influence school plans, the Local Control Control Accountability Plan, and the comprehensive safe school plans.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
43694010000000|Campbell Union High|6|The District developed a climate survey in collaboration with other school districts in the Santa Clara County that was administered online to all students in grades 9 through 12 in November 2018. This survey had a 71% response rate across all grades. It included several questions about student safety and connectedness, and allowed for comparisons among student groups. A follow-up Well-Being Survey was administered in May 2019 to identify trends among students relating to bullying and mental health concerns.  Overall, 60% of students agreed that they feel safe at school, 61% agreed that they feel they belong at school, and 38% said they feel students are treated equally when they break school rules. While there were not large differences in student groups feeling safe, there were some differences in the feeling of belonging. Specifically, African American, Latino, and Filipino students were less likely than their peers to feel that they belong at school. Over the past year, 33% of African American and 23% of Asian students said they were bullied because of their race, ethnicity, or cultural background. Over half of lesbian or gay students (52%) said they were bullied because of their sexuality or perceived sexuality.   Another theme that was important for CUHSD to capture this year was around mental health concerns. Students rated this as one of the top themes in the spring ThoughtExchange, an online survey tool that collected open-ended responses about what is important to our community. The spring Well-Being survey received over 2,500 responses districtwide and revealed that many students are report mental health challenges and also a relative lack of knowledge around available school supports.  In response to these results and conversations with community stakeholders, the District has launched several initiatives to improve school climate in the 2018-2019 school year. One is a Fairness and Belonging Committee, comprised of teachers, students, and parents with a purpose to develop recommendations for the District to improve school climate. Another initiative is the Equal Opportunity Schools (EOS) program, which aims to create equity in the enrollments of underrepresented student groups in AP and IB courses.   To address mental health concerns, the District is piloting the staffing of a social worker at one of the high schools and will also train a core group of staff districtwide in Mental Health First Aid in the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-08-22||Met|2019
58727280000000|Camptonville Elementary|6|CESD used the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to capture student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Due to extremely small student populations within grade levels, multiple grades (6th - 8th) were used to extrapolate results from a student sample size of 1. A summary of key indicators included School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Substance Use and Mental Health. The District learned that the greatest number of respondents agreed or strongly agreed on high academic motivation (76%), facilities were well kept up (76%). 57% of student thought that parent involvement in the school was strong, 48% of students felt strong connectedness and 59% agreed that there were high expectations of students. Only 28% of students reported feeling that they were able to meaningfully participate at school. Although 65% of respondents felt safe or very safe at school, 65% also had experienced harassment or bullying and 50% had mean rumors or lies spread about them. 18 to 29 percent of students reported current use of alcohol or drugs, marijuana, binge drinking, vaping, or cigarette smoking. 41% of students reported feeling chronic sadness/hopelessness and 29% had considered suicide.   The District increased their efforts to map and improve their MTSS resources including mental health supports and counseling services. Middle School students are encouraged to become a part of the Student Leadership Council and to attend staff meetings, School Board Meetings, and to appoint a student representative to the School Site Council. All staff attended trauma-informed care training and are currently reviewing their school-wide PBIS strategies. Due to the small size of the middle school classes, all sixth through eight graders were previously housed in one classroom. After looking at the master schedule and realigning resources, students were split into smaller instructional groups according to grade level for differentiated instruction throughout the day. UDL Strategies are implemented when planning lessons to eliminate barriers.  With the implementation of increased social-emotional and academic supports along with greater student engagement, the school climate feels markedly different. Students are demonstrating that they feel more capable making a difference and are taking more accountability for reporting and standing up against bullying. There have been no indications that students are engaging in vaping or using other substances on or off campus. Parents have remarked on noticeable changes.|2019-10-16|Due to an extremely small sample size, the responses of 1 or 2 students can significantly affect results. Another interesting demographic anomaly is that 81% of students surveyed identified as male and 19% identified as female. There were clearly some challenging dynamics that had developed among these predominantly male students who had been in the same peer group since kindergarten. In addition, due to the small sample size, the results could not be disaggregated according to race/ethnicity.|Met|2019
19647336016323|Canyon Charter Elementary|6|Canyon Charter School administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate:  • I am happy to be at this school. 92% • I feel like I am part of this school. 84% • The teachers at this school treat students fairly. 84% • Teachers care if I am absent from school. 63% • I feel accepted for who I am at this school. 79% • Adults at this school treat all students with respect. 79% • I feel safe at this school.  92% • I feel safe in the neighborhood around this school. 90% • If I told a teacher or other adult at this school that another studnet was bullying me, he or she would try to help me. 91% • Overall safety 83%|2019-10-24||Met|2019
07616710000000|Canyon Elementary|6|In general our climate data reflects that the school is a welcoming and supportive environment for children and their families.  We continue to struggle with issues related to our hard to reach location.  We are working to strengthen students' feelings of connectedness with one another and support social emotional development.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
11625540000000|Capay Joint Union Elementary|6|As a result of our School Climate Survey, staff, students and parents generally reported that the high academic standards, broad range of study and caring compassionate staff were the hallmarks of the Capay School experience.  The groups also reported the desire for better communication and a more inclusive PTO to strengthen the school climate to include all parents and groups.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
30664640000000|Capistrano Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in January-February 2019 to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11.  As results were received, the Main Reports and School Climate Report Cards were shared with principals and District administrators. The elementary participation rate increased from 46% in 2018 to 51% in 2019. Even though there was a decrease, the overall school climate reported by middle and high school students is strong. Compared to other schools in the State, the middle school average went from 88% in 2018 to 83% in 2019.  High schools went from 85% in 2018 to 78% in 2019. Infographics were used to enhance data sharing and increase community engagement.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
34674390123901|Capitol Collegiate Academy|6|Capitol Collegiate Academy implements the 5Essentials Survey annually to the students, families and staff in our school community. In February 2019 78% of our students in grades 4 through 7 took the survey.  On the “supportive environment” measures, students rated our school as “strong.” Specific strengths include: - Students feel they and their peers have the mindsets and behaviors that are the foundation of our college-going culture. Specifically, they think focusing in class, putting forth effort, doing homework are important levers for their success.  - Student-teacher trust is high. Students believe teachers keep their promises, listen to their ideas, and treat them with respect.  - Students feel there are high levels of academic personalism – that their teachers notice if they have trouble learning something, and give specific feedback on how to improve.  Overall, these strengths reflect our overall school design and the extensive professional development and support we put toward: Establishing a physical environment that promotes purposeful learning; Designing, teaching and insisting on clear and consistent routines and procedures that maximize instructional time; Building a culture of hard work and high expectations, and ensure 100% of students are engaged and on task; Managing student behavior and asserting  respectful authority to ensure the focus is on learning; And developing positive relationships with students, treat them with respect, and take responsibility to motivate them toward their achievement.  An area for focus is related to school safety.  While 85% of students feel safe in classrooms and hallways, only 60% feel as safe in bathrooms and around the vicinity of the school grounds. In response to this data our school has taken two key actions.  First, we hired an Instructional Coach for School Culture whose primary responsibility is to train and support our on-duty staff. Our staff who lead arrival, dismissal and monitor bathrooms now have clear criteria for success, ongoing weekly coaching, and are much more purposeful and preventative in their work.   Second, we adopted a new SEL curricula, giving additional tools and language to all members of our school community to problem-solve. We are finding this to be high leverage in our classroom-based and school-wide discussions around bathrooms.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
43693936046536|Capri Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
37680070000000|Cardiff Elementary|6|Cardiff School District administers an annual climate survey to all parents/guardians K-6 and students 3-6 to measure the school environment. The results from this survey provide valuable input into our LCAP goals and priorities.|2019-10-10|The district will also continue to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey to one grade level in our K-6 grade span.|Met|2019
10101080136291|Career Technical Education Charter|6|During the spring of 2019, CTEC surveyed the 9th-grade class with a locally created needs assessment that focused on school climate.  The data collected identified specific strengths and areas of improvement to further support student learning and perception of school safety.  The data identified that 92.5% of students surveyed felt safe at CTEC.  Furthermore, 89.6% of students felt that at least one staff member cared about them and their success.  77% of students felt that they have been given recognition for an achievement that they have accomplished.  On the survey, only 59.7% of students felt their teachers knew and understood their culture.  This information has helped identify an area of growth for CTEC staff to focus on for the next year.  CTEC has implemented the use of "Seven Habits of Highly Effective Teens" and Imago in the advisory curriculum to further establish a unified system to strengthen and support CTEC's cultural pillars and students' perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Within advisory, lessons are creating opportunities for students and staff to engage in conversations that directly address the students' culture and challenges.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
37735510000000|Carlsbad Unified|6|Several questions are asked and analyzed each year regarding the California Healthy Kids Survey.  The specific questions are also part of the overall district goals each year.  The following are all questions that are measured: Increase the % of students who responded having not been cyber bullied over the last 12 months 76.6% to 78.3% Increase the % of students who responded no use of illegal substances on school property during the past 30 days 98.7% to 99% Increase the % of students who responded having not been harassed or bullied on school property over the last 12 months Race 88.7% to 89.7% Religion 93% to 94% Gender 92.6%  to 93.6% LGBT 92.6%  to 93.6% Disabled 95.6% to 96.6%  Immigrant 96.6% to 97.6% Increase the % of students who responded no chronic feeling of sadness or hopelessness over the last 12 months 75.7% to 76.7% Increase the % of students who responded no serious consideration of committing suicide over the last 12 months 90.7% to 91.7% Increase the % of students who responded no missing of school due to feeling sad, hopeless, anxious, stressed or angry over the past 30 days 93% to 94% CUSD is also committed to measure social emotional learning on all of our campuses.  Last year we administered a survey to all students in grades 5-12 that measured student perceptions around being effective communicators and collaborators, critical thinkers, ethical and responsible citizens, lifelong learners,  college and career ready scholars, and self-directed individuals.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
27659870000000|Carmel Unified|6|Carmel Unified School District administers The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) and The Stanford Survey of Adolescent School Experiences (SSASE) to measure school climate. Our plan involves rotating between the two surveys each year. Both surveys provide information to guide overall school improvement as well as Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) efforts, particularly in regard to the state priorities of enhancing school climate and pupil engagement.  The CHKS prompts input from students and provides qualitative data on school climate and safety, learning supports and barriers, and health and well-being. CUSD students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 participate in the survey.  On the 2018-19 CHKS survey, 5th grade respondents were asked about whether they feel safe at school. Findings show that 94% of 5th graders report that they feel safe all or most of the time. The survey also prompted input from 5th grade students regarding school connectedness, which was measured using a composite score that combined responses from five distinct items. 98% of 5th graders reported a high or moderate level of school connectedness.  At the middle and high school levels, the CHKS measures school safety and connectedness using the School Climate Index (SCI). The SCI is calculated by computing the weighted average of two domains: (1) Overall Supports and Engagement and (2) Overall Low Violence and Substance Use at School. Scores can range from approximately 100 to 500, with high scores representing more positive school climates and lower levels of violence and substance use at school. Carmel Middle School scored an SCI of 319 with a state percentile rank of 66, and Carmel High School scored an SCI of 404 with a state percentile rank of 96.  The Stanford Survey of Adolescent School Experiences (SSASE) was last administered during the 2016-17 school year to students in grades 6-12 to deepen CUSD’s understanding of students’ perspectives on their school experiences and to qualitatively measure school climate. This survey is part of a collaborative effort between CUSD and the Challenge Success project in the School of Education at Stanford University. This fully anonymous survey measures middle and high school students’ views on homework, extracurricular activities, sleep, physical health, stress, parent expectations, academic engagement, academic integrity, and teacher support. One item in the survey focuses specifically on school climate, and students were asked how many of their teachers cared about them. The scores could range from 1 (no teachers care about me) to 5 (all of my teachers care about me). At Carmel Middle School, the average score was 4.04 out of 5. At Carmel High School, the average score was 3.78 out of 5. Each school site within the district receives an individual report which are analyzed and utilized in LCAP review and planning, and District goal setting. We will administer the SSASE again during the 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647336016356|Carpenter Community Charter|6|Carpenter Community Charter administered the 2018-2019 School Experience Survey during the spring semester. The following are the key results that pertain to school climate: • School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 93%. • The percentage rate of students reported being happy at school was 93%. 87% of Carpenter’s students reported feeling like they are a part of their school.  • Carpenter Community Charter was perceived to be a safe place by at least 91% of the students. • 83% of Carpenter students reported that they are not teased about what their bodies look like, the way they talk, walk, or dress. • When students were asked if adults treated them fairly, 87% of the students replied in the affirmative. • 87% of Carpenter students reported that they feel like they are part of the school. These figures can be attributed to a number of measures that Carpenter takes to ensure a safe, respectful, and caring environment. Carpenter has long used a system of rewarding good citizenship by presenting “Cougar Coupons” to any student who is caught demonstrating: responsibility, respect, fairness, kindness, trustworthiness, and an effort to protect the environment. Carpenter has a Buddy Bench for students looking for companionship during recess and a supervised area known as the 180 Place for students dealing with physical injuries or needing space from the larger, less supervised schoolyard during break times. In this area, kids who are unable to participate in general playtime activities can play board games or learn jokes rather than having to sit inside. Carpenter has also included the MindUp mindfulness curriculum across all grade levels. Teachers report that teaching students these techniques have greatly reduced playtime disputes. There is also a policy of using rock-paper-scissors to resolve playground disagreements. Carpenter holds an annual Every Kid Counts week embracing diversity. In an effort to help students feel safe in the neighborhood around the school, parent volunteers assist the crossing guards at both school entrances, in the valet drop-off line and in the no-parking zones near the school gates. To ensure that students feel a connection to their community, Carpenter celebrates a Community Service Week where each day is devoted to helping members of our community outside of Carpenter ranging from elderly people to homeless animals. Additionally, Carpenter welcomed a local artist to paint Roaming Elephant murals on campus. Children can see these same elephants in murals off campus as well. It is reassuring that 91% of students polled feel safe. Carpenter will continue to prioritize this by using the strategies outlined above.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
42691460000000|Carpinteria Unified|6|Carpinteria Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey annually to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11.   Data from the survey shows a high rate of school connectedness (5th-99%; 7th-88%; 9th-95%; 11th-96%); a high rate of student perception of school safety (5th-90%; 7th-88%; 9th-95%; 11th-97%); a low rate of student perception of academic motivation (5th-82%; 7th-80%; 9th-78%; 11th-84%).  The district will continue to focus on increasing school climate, specifically school connectedness and academic motivation at Carpinteria Middle School. This school year, Carpinteria Middle School has implemented activities to improve school climate: Daily advisory period using the 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens Active ASB student leadership Implementation of PBIS strategies Monthly training in social-emotional learning for district staff Implementation of social skills in grades 7 and 8 Assemblies for student recognition Early release time for teacher collaboration to adjust instructional practices|2019-10-22||Met|2019
10621661030840|Carter G. Woodson Public Charter|6|96%willagreethatthecampusisclean 93%ofstaffmembersatMultimediareportthattheyfeltsafeoncampus. 100%ofstaffmembersatMultimediaAgreeorStronglyAgreethecampusis clean. 100%ofstaffmembersatWoodsonMainCampusreportthattheyfeelsafeon campus. 91%ofstaffmembersatWoodsonMainCampusAgreeorStronglyAgreethe campusisclean. 82%ofstudentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatMultimediaisasafeplaceto attendschool. 81%ofstudentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatMultimediafacilitiesareclean andwellmaintained. 92%ofstudentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatMultimediahasadequate technologyavailableoncampustomeetacademicneeds. 90%ofstudentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatWoodsonMainCampusisa safeplacetoattendschool. 84%ofstudentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatWoodsonMainCampus facilitiesarecleanandwellmaintained. 86%ofstudentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatWoodsonMainCampushas adequatetechnologyavailableoncampustomeetacademicneed. 97%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethattheirchildrenfeelsafeat Woodson. 94%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatWoodsonstudentshaveaccess tostandards-alignedtextbooksandmaterials. 100%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatthecampusisclean. 99%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatMultimediafacilitiesareingood repair. 88%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethattheirchildrenfeelsafeat WoodsonMainCampus. 88%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatWoodsonMainCampusstudents haveaccesstostandards-alignedtextbooksandmaterials. 91%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethattheWoodsonMainCampusis clean. 98%ofparentsAgreeorStronglyAgreethatWoodsonMainCampusfacilities areingoodrepair. 1.Maintainedsafeandhighqualityfacilities. a.Upgradesandongoingmaintenancehave beenperformedtomaintainsafeandhighqualityfacilities. b.Schoolhasbegunconversationstoinstall andupgradecamerasecuritysystematboth sites. 2.Maintainedqualityjanitorialstaffandensure theyhaveaccesstonecessarysuppliesto ensurethecampusiscleanandsanitized.a. JanitorialComplianceRequisitionFormsare utilizedasamethodofauditingtoensure necessarycleaningandmaintenancetakes place. 3.Suppliedclassroomsandlabswithupdated computersandsoftwarelicenses. a.TechnologySpecialistensuredthat computersareupdatedandsoftwarelicenses arerenewedregularly. b.Online-Librarysubscriptionwasavailableto studentsforresearch. 4.Purchasedorleasedandmaintainedsports, fitness,andrecreationalfacilitiesand equipment. a.Sports,fitness,andrecreationalfacilitiesand equipmentwerepurchasedandreplacedas necessarytosupporthealthandfitness.|2019-10-28|Administrationinspectsbuildingsforcleanliness,damage,graffiti, lighting,andpainting. Weemployafull timemaintenancestafftokeepourschoolin goodconditionaccordingtostateandlocalbuildingcodes. Maintenancestaffeffectivelyresolvesareas identifiedthatneedimmediateattention.Ourschoolcomplieswith cityfirecodesandisinspectedyearlybydistrictandfiresafety officials.Ourjanitorsuseajanitorial requisitionformtoensurethatourfacilitiesaremaintained throughouttheday.CarterG.Woodsonallbuildingpermitsincludingpermitsincludingfirepermitsareupto date.ThePrincipalconductsmonthlywalkthroughswiththecustodianbyfillingouttherequisitioncomplianceform.Thecustodiandocumentsrepairsneededand keepsaninventoryofallcleaningsuppliesandmaterials.AnyrepairsorfacilitiesneedsaredocumentedandreportedfromthePrincipaltoCentralOffice. TheschoolsafetyplanisupdatedandreviewedbytheSchoolSiteCouncilandschoolstaffannually.Studentspracticefiredrills,lock-downdrills,andearthquake drillsannually.CarterG.Woodsonprovidesandmaintainsasafelearningandworkingenvironmentforallstudentsandemployees.AgapeInc.hasdeveloped proceduresforrespondingtofires,disasters,andotheremergencies.Ourcomprehensiveschoolsafetyplanisupdatedyearlyand usedincaseofemergencies. We have seen a decrease in the 2018 vs. 2019 school year for suspensions.|Met|2019
10755980000000|Caruthers Unified|6|The administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade students during the spring of 2019. School engagement and supports data revealed that 67% (5th), 70% (7th), 54% (9th), and 52% (11th) felt connected to school. While 76% (5th), 64% (7th), 52% (9th) and 51% (11th) of students felt they had caring adult relationships. Under school safety 77% of 5th graders felt safe at school and 78% (7th), 53% (9th) and 56% (11th) felt safe or very safe at school. For the 7th-12th grade students that noted they had binge drinking was 0% (7th), 5% (9th) and 9% (11th) grade students. The CHKS will be administered again in the spring of 2021.  The LEA would like to see a growth in the percentage of students that felt connected to school and had caring adult relationships.  We will continuously seek out student input to understand what they need and we have provided  several mental health training's for staff to understand students and strategies to work with them.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
45699140000000|Cascade Union Elementary|6|DATA: A majority of students feel safe and supported at school. A few students identified staff that were not as welcoming or supportive as others.  The students would like more group-type, research, and hands-on projects.  The majority of students find that not all of their peers act responsible during class time as they believe they are trying to impress their peers. Students don't like iReady and they have asked that sports facilities be improved, and want more access to new technology. They would also like more breaks and additional time for lunch, as well as more instructional time for science and social studies.  MEANING:  Strengths: We offer a variety of ways to communicate with families and have an extensive outreach program.  We have worked to be inclusive of all cultures and languages and invite parents to provide feedback so that we can continually improve.  Challenges: One of our challenges is educating parents on student expectations.  We also have worked as a staff to ensure that we are using common language and expectations for students. A bulk of our professional development has been around identifying the levels in student behavior and supporting the social emotional needs of each individual student.  Our staff has worked extensively to learn how to implement the Positive Behavior Support Systems but more work is needed to identify Tier 1, 2 and 3 supports and ensure we target the students that are most at risk. Barriers: Lack of available funding resources and turn over of staff are always a barrier for offering consistency and sustainability within our programs.  USE: As a result of the student feedback, we offered more electives and more student rewards, discussed teaching strategies that students found of value, offered more experimental classes, increase sports, implemented a districtwide field trip more time for staff/student interactions to develop relationships.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19643450000000|Castaic Union|6|In February of 2019, Castaic Union School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to all 5th and 7th grade students.  The overall scores reflect that our students feel connected to school, they feel that there are caring adults on the school sites to support them; the majority answered that they have meaningful participation and a high percentage when surveyed, feel safe at school.  (this includes our three elementary schools and our middle school.) The results were as follows: School Connectedness - 5th Grade 72%, 7th Grade 68% Caring Adult Relationships - 5th Grade 68%, 7th Grade 88% Meaningful Participation - 5th Grade 78%, 7th Grade 62% School Safety - 5th Grade 95%, 7th Grade 96% Castaic Union School District has a high attendance rate of 96%.  Our district goal is to annually increase by 1-2%.  In the 2019 California Healthy Kids Survey the subgroup data was not disaggregated.  Please refer to the 2019 CA healthy Kids Survey link for additional data.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
08100820830059|Castle Rock|6|During the 2017-18 school year, a survey was given to all K-12 families at Castle Rock Charter School. It indicated the following:  The family engagement seminars have provided an opportunity for families to learn about teaching and learning and have had a positive impact on student learning.  83%of parents agreed, 71% of students agreed, and 94% of staff agreed. The Orientation Boot Camp is effective in supporting new students. 60% of parents agree, 78%  of students agree, and 94% of staff agree.  The facilities meet the needs of the learning community, 92% of parents agree, 92% of students agree Our suspension rate is very low.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
45699220000000|Castle Rock Union Elementary|6|Our single school district administers a survey, as specified, and reports the results to its local governing board.We report our findings from our twice a year local climate survey to the teachers, staff, parents and board. We also submit this information to the state as required, less frequently. From our current survey we see that perception of school safety is at a high percentage of 98 percent of students feeling safe on campus. We have also noticed a small percentage of respondents (3%) asking about other improvements to ensure safety. General feelings of connection and of knowing how to ask for and get help  is reflected with the majority of students (89 and 96%respectively) responding.|2019-04-09|Our school is a tiny, rural K-8. Many of our students have been here since Preschool and attend school with relatives. Some of them have parents and grandparents who attended school here or work here. Students feel connected and safe due to the involvement of their families and the immediate and collaborative response they get to any issues which arise.|Met|2019
19647336071435|Castlebay Lane Charter|6|Castlebay administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the spring semester. The following are some of the results that pertain to school climate:  • School Experience Survey participation rates for students were 94%. • The percentage rate of students who reported being happy at school was 93%.  • 84% students reported feeling like they are a part of their school. • Castlebay was perceived to be a safe place by at least 89% of students. • When students were asked if adults treated them with respect, 84% responded in the affirmative.     Castlebay will continue its Bullying campaigns, Restorative Justice program, and parent workshops, which focus on responsible citizenship, the Art of Kindness, and student resiliency.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43693936046544|Castlemont Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
01611500000000|Castro Valley Unified|6|As students grow older (from elementary to secondary) in CVUSD, our students feel less engaged in the school communities. There is a trend that also says feelings of school safety are higher in elementary and middle school than in high school. We also see a pattern of lower scores on the Health Kids Survey across grade spans coming from our students of color in areas like school engagement and support (school connectedness and meaningful participation). Finally, in the category of Chronic Sadness/Hopelessness, we are finding that our Latino and African American students have higher response rates indicating these feelings compared to their peers.   In response to this data, we are carrying out the following actions: 1) Continue to provide professional learning opportunities on culturally responsive practices, social-emotional learning, lowering affective filters, and mindfulness, and 2) Continue to disaggregate and discuss our data on a frequent basis so we know where are students are consistently.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330101659|CATCH Prep Charter High, Inc.|6|At CATCH Prep, 162 families answered our climate survey. 95.1% of the families surveyed stated that CATCH Prep provides a safe environment for both staff and students. 97% stated that CATCH Prep provided their students access to programs that provided their students with social-emotional learning supports. 98.3% of the families surveyed stated they felt safe in school.|2019-09-09||Met|2019
40687260000000|Cayucos Elementary|6|The District/School provided parents with a survey in which we received positive feedback.  When asked if the school provides a high quality educational program, 79% agree, 0% disagree, and 20% are neutral.  When asked if my child's school is safe, 91% agree, 4% disagree, and 4% are neutral.  When asked if the school provides a welcoming environment, 96% agree and 4% are neutral.  When asked if my child's school is clean, 100% agree.  Parents also made comments that they would like more strict disciplinary measures taken.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
15634046009351|Cecil Avenue Math and Science Academy|6|Cecil Avenue Math and Science Academy has made significant progress in the area of School Climate in recent years. Since day one of the 2018-2019 school year, the principal stands outside the entrance to the school every morning to greet every student who enter through those gates. It is important that students see a smiling face in the morning.  It shows students and parents that this school is a welcoming place where learning and safety are of utmost importance. Every morning, announcements are made to get the day started. The flag salute is performed and the day’s information is given out. To help promote positive behavior among the student body, PAT on the backs are given out for good behavior or for doing something respectful, like picking up trash while walking or holding the door for a staff member. PAT on the backs are positive behavior reinforcement given to students. Students who receive a PAT on the back will be entered into a raffle for the opportunity to earn a prize. Students are picked every two weeks on a Friday and allowed to spin a wheel, for a prize, located in the ASB room. Along with the PAT on the backs, CAMSA recently incorporated the practice of holding rallies to help motivate students on state assessments. CAMSA held an SBAC rally last spring to get students thinking of doing their best on the test. The band and cheerleaders performed for the student body and chants such as rock the test, were shouted by the various grade levels. Students were promised incentive prizes for doing well on the tests. CAMSA improved in both math and English, and another rally was held in September to reveal all the incentive prizes for the students. All these activities and strategies help to build up the school culture and climate.|2019-10-14|Many positive changes have taken place and, according to staff, Cecil Avenue Math and Science Academy has a positive atmosphere. The office staff also practices excellent customer service to welcome parents and community members. CAMSA rearranged the office furniture for a more welcoming and inviting atmosphere.  We believe the most valid measures of school progress are the PBIS Self-Assessment Survey and the PBIS School Climate Survey. This survey is given to all middle school students in grades 6-8. On the PBIS School Climate Survey, the average overall score for our school site increased from 3.01 in the Spring of 2018 to 3.07 in the Fall of 2018. This increase means students feel safer, more respected, and feel more connected to the school. According to the 2017 California Healthy Kids Survey administered to 7th grade students, only 60% of our students indicated they have a high level of school connectedness. The staff and administration are working hard to improve the overall school culture so that every student feels safe, connected, and receives parental support.|Met|2019
44697990117804|Ceiba College Preparatory Academy|6|Student survey data collected in Fall, 2019, was based on the Gallup Student Poll. Students were asked to respond on a five-point scale ranging from “Strongly Agree” (5) to “Strongly Disagree” (1) with a score of “3” being “Neutral, Neither Agree nor Disagree”.  The current administration of the survey generated the following results at a score of 4 and 5 aggregated (“Agree” and “Strongly Agree”).  1. Over 65% of students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe in this school.  2. Over 57% of students agree or strongly agree that adults at their school care about them. 3. 88% agree or strongly agree that they know they will graduate from high school.  4. More than 73% agree or strongly agree that their teachers make them feel that their schoolwork is important.   A review of scores at the “Disagree” or “Strongly Disagree” levels aggregated indicate:  1. Less than 11% of students disagree or strongly disagree that they feel safe in this school.  2. Less than 12% of students disagree or strongly disagree that adults at their school care about them.  3. Less than 2% of students disagree or strongly disagree that they know they will graduate from high school. 4. Less than 4% of students disagree or strongly disagree that their teachers make them feel that their schoolwork is important.  Moving forward, the survey will be administered to all grade levels and results will be analyzed and communicated to school community stakeholders. An action plan to target areas of concern will be developed and implemented in conjunction with student government (Associated Students High School and Associated Students Middle School) and will be shared with Parent Leadership and with Ceiba staff by 12/1/19. Initial priorities will be to ensure that a higher percentage of students feel safe at school and feel that more adults at school care about them The action plan will include setting targets for increasing scores by next Fall.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330115139|Center for Advanced Learning|6|During the 2018-19 school year CAL administered a climate survey to parents in Spring 2019.  After reviewing the data Center For Advanced Learning’s leadership team learned that our parents feel that CAL is providing a positive experience for their students through the instructional program and other school related activities.  Parents feel well-informed about happenings at the school and feels that their child is in a safe learning environment.  The results of the survey revealed that over 95% of parents agree that CAL is an inviting and supportive place for their students to learn.  93% of parents responded that CAL promotes academic success for all students, and over 90% of parents felt that CAL keeps parents well-informed about school activities and their child’s academic progress.  The survey further revealed that there is a need for more opportunities for enrichment programs as well as providing additional support for students social-emotional needs.  32% of parents responded that there is a need for more social emotional support and 27% of parents would like more enrichment programs. CAL leadership team plans to incorporate more programs to support students social emotional needs and enrichment opportunities.|2019-11-09|Met|Met|2019
34739730000000|Center Joint Unified|6|The CJUSD conducts the California Healthy Kids Survey every two years with students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11.  The survey covers a range of topics including both school connectedness and safety. The last administration was during the 2017-18 school year.  The results of the CHKS are as follows:  Elementary Level - Grade 5  Demographics 42% response rate 51% of respondents were female, and 49% were male  Survey Results 93% of respondents stated they were highly or moderately connected to their school. 61% of respondents indicated that they felt safe all or most of the time.  Secondary Level  Grade 7   81% of students (272/336) of seventh-graders responded to the survey 52% of respondents were female, and 48% were male  Grade 9 100% of students (242/242) of ninth-graders responded to the survey 50% of respondents were female, and 50% were male  Grade 11 at CHS 97% (229/237) of eleventh graders responded to the survey 48% of respondents were female, and 52% were male  Grade 11 at McClellan High School 79% (48/61) of MHS students responded 44% of respondents were female, and 56% were male   Survey Results Grade 7 85% of seventh-graders fell in the highly or moderately connect to school categories   Grade 9 91% of ninth graders fell in the highly or moderately connect to school categories   Grade 11 at CHS 88% of eleventh graders fell in the highly or moderately connect to school categories   Grade 11 at McClellan High School 97% of eleventh graders fell in the highly or moderately connect to school categories Perceived Safety at School  Grade 7 Very Safe = 12%  Safe = 40%  Neither safe or unsafe = 36%   Unsafe = 8%  Very Unsafe = 4%  Grade 9 Very Safe = 10%  Safe = 45%  Neither safe or unsafe = 38%   Unsafe =5%  Very Unsafe = 2%  Grade 11 at CHS Very Safe = 11%  Safe = 46%  Neither safe or unsafe = 36%   Unsafe = 4%  Very Unsafe = 3%  Grade 11 at McClellan High School Very Safe = 30%  Safe = 37%  Neither safe or unsafe = 28%   Unsafe = 2%  Very Unsafe = 2%   Based on the survey results, the CJUSD has developed the following goals:  Increase school connectedness by decreasing by 2% those who reported a low level of connectedness Increase 5th-grade students who feel safe at school “all the time” or “most of the time” by 4% Increase secondary students who feel “safe” or “very safe” at school by 4%.  Complete survey results can be obtained at the district office.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19643520000000|Centinela Valley Union High|6|To assess school climate, the District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) and a locally developed LCAP Student Survey to all 9-12 students. The District chose these measures as they reflect a balance between a widely used state measure and a local measure of the District’s particular focus areas. According to the CHKS, 50.25% of students (a 3.85% increase from the 2017-2018 school year) feel safe or very safe at school. This data varied slightly by ethnicity, with 52.25% of Asian students, 50% of Hispanic students, 51.25% of African American students, and 51.73% of all other ethnicities feeling safe or very safe at school. In the LCAP Survey, students indicated the assurance of well-trained safety officers as the most important means of increasing students’ sense of safety and connectedness to school. Parents mirrored this priority in their LCAP Survey results and Staff ranked well-trained safety officers as the third most important factor related to students’ safety and connectedness to school.  In response to this data, the District has continued targeted training for safety officers and implemented additional training for all staff on ensuring campus and classroom safety.  According to the CHKS, 20.63% of students agree or strongly agree with the statement “I feel like I am part of this school,” with this connection most strongly reflected in ninth grade. When asked in the LCAP Survey to rank factors contributing to supporting students' attendance at and engagement in school, students indicated relationships with teachers and other school staff (a priority mirrored by LCAP Parent and Staff Survey results) as the number one factor, followed by participation in athletics, clubs, and after school activities, and knowing our schools are safe. In a similar vein, the second most important factor for students in increasing their sense of safety and connectedness is training for teachers and staff to better understand students’ diverse needs. This correlates with CHKS data, which shows that 21.75% of students agree or strongly agree that adults in CVUHSD schools respect differences in students.  19.25% of students agree or strongly agree that teachers show they think it is important for students of different races and cultures to get along with each other. It is important to note that the majority of students neither agreed or disagreed with either of these two statements. In response to this data regarding students’ connectedness to school, the District will ensure that the 2019-20 LCAP student focus groups emphasize investigating more deeply students’ perceptions of how our schools can more effectively equip teachers and staff to better understand students’ diverse needs. The District will continue to implement both the CHKS and the local LCAP Student Input Survey in order to help assess the effectiveness of programs and efforts to increase students’ sense of connectedness and improve overall school climate.|2019-10-08|The District continued to fully fund the implementation of Link Crew at all three traditional school sites. The districtwide implementation of Link Crew has helped to improve 8th graders' transition to high school, especially given that CVUHSD is not a unified district and receives students from multiple feeder districts.  Positive Behavior Intervention & Supports (PBIS) programs continue to be implemented districtwide to teach and encourage pro-social skills and behavior among both students and staff and to ensure the provision of behavioral, social-emotional, and academic interventions and supports that meet students’ individual needs.  With the support of Intervention Specialists, Social Workers, Psychologists, Counselors, Safety Officers, and administrators at each school site, PBIS has worked to positively impact school climate throughout the District.  For the 2018-19 school year, the California PBIS Coalition recognized Lawndale High School (Gold Level), Leuzinger High School (Platinum Level), and Hawthorne High School (Platinum Level) for their work in implementing and sustaining schoolwide PBIS.|Met|2019
19647330100800|Central City Value|6|The Central City School Climate Survey, developed in coordination with our Value Schools sister schools, was administered in April of 2019. A total of 394 online anonymous surveys were successfully completed from the school population of 464, representing all 4 grades (9-12) and an 84.9% completion rate.  The survey results were overall very positive with a few areas for growth that were identified and addressed.  First, almost all questions relating to faculty and staff interactions with students were favorable.  In general, it seems that students view their faculty and staff favorably (agree or strongly agree) in that they feel their teachers care about them (60.7%), notice when the students are doing a good job in class (59.9%), make themselves available to help when students need help (75.2%), and challenge me to think critically (68.5%).  In addition, students feel that faculty and staff treat students with respect (73.8%), encourage students to do their best and to reach their potential (71.5%), and make it clear that bullying is not tolerated (72.6%).  Further, students feel that the school prepares them for success at a university (71.6%), helps students learn about college by informing them of choices and financial aid opportunities (73.0%), encourages students to help the community (69.3%), provides opportunities to join activities, such as sports and clubs (81.1%), encourages students to make healthy choices in life (68.4%), provides counseling for students who need it (79.0%), sets clear rules and consequences for behavior (71.4%), and ensures that the school administration is accessible and offers support (65.9%).  Secondly, the survey revealed that students persevere through adversity (3 questions addressing this topic ranged from 68.0 to 73.1% agreement), self-advocate for themselves (73.0%), value their work at school (64.5%) can successfully complete their work (61,8%) and plan  on going to college (80.2%).  Students also felt good about helping the community (65.3%) and appreciated the positive impact that performing community service had on them (54.1%)  Conversely, areas for growth emerged that have already received our attention.  One major area of concern that emerged in our school as well as most schools across California is the prevalence of vaping.  When asked if students at our school avoid smoking or vaping, 55.9% disagreed, while only 14.4% agreed.  This is in stark contrast to last year, when the results were 30.0% disagreeing and 32.3% agreeing.  Relatedly, the survey revealed 50.5% of students disagreed with the question that students at my school avoided using drugs and alcohol compared to 28.7% disagreeing last year.  These two areas have been addressed in numerous ways through educational and counseling programs for students (such as GRYD-Gang Reduction & Youth Development), parents, and staff.  The administration also has reviewed and revised their monitoring duties to ensure a safer, drug-free environment.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
36676450000000|Central Elementary|6|Each year 5th and 7th grade students complete an online survey addressing the local climate that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The survey is administered within the school day and responses range from strongly agree to strongly disagree. There were 406 fifth grade student responses representing 81% of the students and 545 seventh grade student responses representing 98% of the students recorded.  Survey responses indicate students feel safe at school with teachers that treat them with respect while holding them to high standards. They also show that opportunities are available that increase a feeling of connectedness and a sense of pride in their own school. Key survey results include: • 96% of 5th grade students and 90% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “I feel safe at school.” • 87% of 5th grade students and 75% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “There are programs or assemblies that help keep our school bully free.” • 98% of 5th grade students and 92% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “My school offers me a chance to be involved in art, music or performances.” • 97% of 5th grade students and 96% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “My teachers expect me to continue my education after high school and go to college or vocational school.” • 91% of 5th grade students and 76% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “I would recommend this school to my friends.” In addition, responses from 7th grade students indicate the majority do not use, or perceive the use of, illegal substances as indicated below: • 80% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “Students at my school do not smoke cigarettes.” • 83% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “Students at my school do not use illegal drugs.” • 82% of 7th grade students strongly agree/agree that, “Students at my school do not drink alcohol.” Results of the parent surveys are shared with the School Board, the LCAP Advisory Committee and the District Advisory Committee and site results are shared with School Site Councils and site parent groups. Central School District will continue to provide bully prevention programs, healthy lifestyle curriculum and character education that encourages a cooperative and collaborative school climate.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
10739650000000|Central Unified|6|In November-December of 2018 the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), California School Staff Survey (CSSS), and the California School Parent Survey (CSPS) were administered to students, school staff, and parents of Central Unified school district. Student populations that were surveyed were from 5th, 7th, 9th, & 11th grades within the district. Results were calculated based upon averages of individual items summarized within indicators. Increases were noted across positive climate indicators for 9th grade students. Slight decreases were noted for both 7th & 11th grade populations sampled. District 5th grade percentages reflected student responses that were rated as highly positive compared to secondary students. Perceived Safety is relatively high for 5th & 7th grade students, but lower for high school students surveyed. School Connectedness continues to trend downward with the exception of 9th /11th grades being fairly stable but relatively lowered compared to elementary and middle schools. Meaningful Participation continues to be an area of opportunity as perceptions continue to decrease. Results for 5th grade students reporting ever having experienced Alcohol or Drug use have increased, and Secondary Current Alcohol or Drug Use decreased for 7th & 9th grades.  Overall results indicated that the majority of students, staff, and parents are feeling safe and see relatively low uses of alcohol and drugs within our schools. Meaningful Participation and School Connectedness can be addressed through school sites working to engage students, staff, and families to participate so they feel meaningfully included within the decision-making of our educational partnership. The results of this survey data will be shared with PBIS Coordinators, support staff, and site administrators to help build and integrate actionable plans with PBIS teams to better support targeted interventions and whole-school efforts. The district’s support and implementation of the recently adopted Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) curriculums at the K-8 schools encompass many of these domains of culture and climate and should yield to more positive outcomes over time of areas measured.|2019-08-27|The district will begin the survey process earlier in the fall so that the data can be collected and utilized sooner in the needs assessment and planning process with stakeholders. It is still the intention of Central USD to combine the surveys (Parent & CHKS) to make the data more useable and streamline the process.|Met|2019
16638830000000|Central Union Elementary|6|In Grades K-2, 87% of students report feeling safe at school which is a 4% increase from previous year’s survey results. Students connectedness had a 7% increase with the greatest growth in peer relationships. In Grades 3 – 8, 72% of students report feeling safe at school which is a 2% increase from previous year’s survey results. Questions reflecting their sense of connectedness also had small gains including 2% more reporting they “feel part of a community.” LEA has learned that initial implementation of a Multi-Tiered System of Supports focused on the social-emotional/behavioral needs of students is demonstrating growth in students’ sense of safety and connectedness.    Data shows LEA's greatest gains are with K-2 students in both connectedness and sense of safety. Growth was also seen with 3rd - 8th grade student. Connectedness initiatives as a component of the Multi-Tiered Sytem of Support are reported by parents as having a positive impact on school climate at all schools. Challenges include finding the appropriate social-emotional curriculum to meet the needs of all students.    The LEA will continue to refine and enhance its Multi-Tiered System of Supports focused on the social-emotional/behavioral needs of students for purposes of continuous improvement. In addition, the LEA will continue to build the capacity of all staff to make connections and build relationships.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
13631150000000|Central Union High|6|CUHSD administers the California Healthy Kids survey every other year to students in grades 9 and 11.  In spring 2018-19, 638 freshmen and 554 juniors from Central Union and Southwest High Schools responded to the survey. Results on key indicators related to school connectedness and safety are as follows: Average percent of students reporting “Agree” or “Strongly Agree”: School Connectedness:         Gr. 9 – 67%.    Gr.11 – 57% Academic Motivation:             Gr. 9 – 77%.  Gr.11 – 72% Average percent of students reporting “Safe” or “Very Safe”: Perceived Safety at School:   Gr. 9 – 69%.  Gr. 11 – 58%.   In general, Grade 9 students reported a measurably higher level of “School Connectedness” and “Academic Motivation” than Grade 11 students. Approximately one-fifth indicated a low level of academic motivation.  Up slightly from two years previously, 4-10% of students responded that they felt unsafe or very unsafe at school.  School site administration analyzed results, compared to previous years’ data, and developed a strategic plan for making improvements in school climate. One key strategy is the implementation of the Positive Behavior and Intervention and Supports (PBIS), a framework for maximizing the selection and use of evidence-based prevention and intervention practices along a multi-tiered continuum that supports the academic, social, emotional, and behavioral competence of all students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
10622406114805|Central Valley Home|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
30664720000000|Centralia Elementary|6|The Centralia School District is committed to providing a positive school climate across all school sites within the district. The District has engaged in a process to include all stakeholders to provide input and perspectives regarding student learning, resources, cultivating positive school climate and maintaining clean and supportive learning environments. In April 2019, a survey was conducted and included students, staff and parents.  There were 2,989 students who completed the survey. Eighty-four percent of students, in grades 2-6, felt safe at school.  There was eighty-seven percent of students who felt their school provided the resources needed to learn while at school.  Ninety-one percent of students felt their teachers have high expectations for them to learn.  Ninety-one percent of students reported that they know school attendance is important to their education. Overall student sentiments remain high as indicated by the distribution of positive responses.  Students reported that they needed assistance in math, reading, and writing.  The District will continue to survey all stakeholders yearly to ensure that all resources and supports are utilized for maintaining positive school climate at all district schools.  The area of improvement is focused on students feeling safe at school.  This is an area where our District is increasing timely communication on safety and the preparation (i.e. safety drills) to ensure our school sites are safe.  In addition, working on building positive relationships and setting clear expectations for our school campuses are essential to increase student sentiments in this area.  Implementing PBIS, restorative practices, and Second Step curriculum can assist in improving soft skills through social-emotional competencies, increasing self-regulation and reflection, and modeling positive behaviors.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19647090112250|Century Academy for Excellence|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19647090107508|Century Community Charter|6|CCCs will conduct a new survey for the 2019-20 school year. Here is the previous years survey: Below are the results from our survey of CCCS parents and students: The Alliance for the Study of School Climate Quality Analytic Assessment Instrument was completed by the parent, student, and teacher participants. The primary function of the ASSC SCAI is to provide a mirror with which those within an individual school may explore the quality of their school's climate. It provides a scoring procedure that allows for a highly valid and reliable indicator of the quality of school climate across 8 dimensions. These dimensions include the following: (1) physical environment; (2) teacher interactions; (3) student interactions; (4) leadership and decisions; (5) discipline and management; (6) learning and assessment; (7) attitude and culture; and (8) community. All responses were anonymous. The items scores will range between 5.0 (high) to 1.0 (low). CCCS received scores ranging from 4.21 to 4.95 in the area of "The School is Welcoming" This includes the areas: * welcoming to outsiders * staff/students ownership of appearance * staff and students respect the custodian * Graffiti is rare * school is perceived as welcoming * school sends out regular communication * athletic events and fine arts are well attended * CCCS received scores ranging from 3.50 to 4.95 in the area of "Safe Learning Environment" This includes the areas: * students feel a sense of community * students accept zero tolerance of put downs * many students attend school events * most students feel safe from violence * What it takes to get a good grade is clear * feel motivated and in control of learning * class dialogue is high-order thinking* CCCS received scores ranging from 3.80 to 4.95 in the area of "Inclusive Learning Environment" This includes the areas: * Students feel part of a community.* Expectation that bullying is unacceptable. * Teachers have high expectations for all. * Students feel comfortable talking to adults * Adults provide strategies to deal with student stress. *Feel like I am growing as a person. *Teachers create a sense of belonging.* CCCS received scores ranging from 3.50 to 4.95 in the area of "Student Need for Student Role Models" This includes the areas: * Students understand “put downs not Okay. * “Popular” students are respectful of others. * There are positive roles models that I look up to.* Students do not tolerate hurtful/abusive language. * Students speak about school in proud/positive. * Most students feel listened to or have a voice. * Most students feel they owe school debt* CCCS received scores ranging from 3.80 to 4.70 in the area of "Student Discipline Policy-Making Empowerment" This includes the areas: *Behavioral expectations are clear. * Most teachers use effect discipline strategies.* Students have some say in making the rules. *If feel a sense of belonging and community. *Students do not tolerate hurtful/abusive language|2019-10-23|In SUMMARY: The staff at CCCS has worked very hard to ensure that our school climate is safe, welcoming, inclusive, rigorous, fair, and loving. The survey reveals that we are well on our way to being great in these areas. Our lowest scores were in one or two areas in each category, and primarily from our 7th graders. The survey cause administration to talk to a representation from the 7th grade to find out how we can improve in the areas they scored us lower than other stakeholders. The conversation prompted administration to move some teachers around and begin to strategize to ensure student involvement in decisions.|Met|2019
50710430000000|Ceres Unified|6|In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey that is given every 2 years to students in grades 7-12, the district provides the Safe and Civil Schools Survey to students in grades 2-12 each year. Results are provided and analyzed at the grade, school, and district levels. Data related to each of these metrics is reported in the Local Control Accountability Plan.  An area of growth for Ceres Unified is disaggregation and analysis of student survey results broken down by different student groups.   Summary of survey results include: *Adults are helpful to students:  Elementary:  76%; Secondary:  72% *Adults treat students fairly:  Elementary:  81%; Secondary:  74% *Adults treat students respectfully:  Elementary:  85%; Secondary:  73% *Adults encourage students to do their best:  91%; Secondary:  81% *If students have a problem, they know they can go to a staff member for help:  Elementary:  76%; Secondary:  70%  *I am proud to be part of this school:  Elementary:  77%; Secondary:  69%|2019-10-30||Met|2019
49402530128074|Cesar Chavez Language Academy|6|No new information since 2017-18 as this was the last time the survey was taken. Will be using Youth Truth in the next few months.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36676520000000|Chaffey Joint Union High|6|The District engages with stakeholders annually in a variety of ways.  The District administers its School Climate, LCAP, incoming freshmen parents, and senior exit surveys at regular intervals  to parents, staff, and all sophomores at all the schools.  While there is a specific School Climate survey, all surveys include items pertinent to school climate. The surveys provide useful data to support the District in fulfilling one of its goals outlined in the Local Control and Accountability Plan: CJUHSD will provide safe and caring campus environments that engage students in their schools. The surveys include questions taken from the US Department of Education School Climate Surveys. Meaning: A majority of all stakeholders agree or strongly agree that their school offers a safe environment that provides opportunities to engage students in learning and in school activities--90% of students, 92% of staff, and 90% of parents indicated that they feel their schools are safe. Meanwhile, 79% of District graduates from 2019 indicated they felt safe (18% were neutral; 3.8% disagreed).  A majority of stakeholders believe schools maintain high expectations for student achievement--95% of students, 96% of staff, and 91% of parents confirm this. Also, stakeholders agree that students have opportunities that increase involvement and belonging in their high schools--94% of students, 96% of staff, and 86% of parents agree. Several areas of focus that emerged from the surveys include respectful treatment of students, concerns about substance abuse, and students’ social and emotional learning (SEL) needs. Staff, parents, and students expressed concern about student use of drugs and alcohol. For example, 50% of students agreed that students may have tried drugs and alcohol, and staff and parents agree that substance abuse is a problem for adolescents. Additionally, students indicated they confront challenges with mutual respect among students, with 42% of students expressing that there is a lack of respect demonstrated among students. Other areas of concern for students include social media and bullying, and relevance of learning. The District will use this data and ongoing engagement efforts with all stakeholders to improve school climate at all of our schools.  In 2019-2020, the District provided staff and parents opportunities to learn more about SEL strategy implementation in school and at home.|2019-10-15|Evidence illustrates that SEL implementation can support school and classroom climate positively.  Additionally, the District has begun to train staff in mental health first aid. The District will examine national trends to see how its results compare to data nationwide. The District will use this data to evaluate further the actions and services it currently offers in its Local Control and Accountability Plan and to inform steps it can take to improve student achievement and outcomes as indicated on the California School Dashboard. In addition, the District provides the results of this survey to all sites. All schools will receive data based on their own student and stakeholder responses, and some vary from the District averages. The data is also disaggregated by gender and student population, so that schools may address the concerns specific to each of their unique student populations.  Each site uses this data with all stakeholder groups to develop strategies and responses appropriate to each school site. The District is committed to supporting each of its schools with the resources needed to support students.|Met|2019
19647330108878|CHAMPS - Charter HS of Arts-Multimedia & Performing|6|CHAMPS administered the Youth Truth Survey, Overall, CHAMPS students rate their overall school culture as highly as students do at other participating schools.   On a relative basis, CHAMPS students agree to a similar degree with the following statement(s): CHAMPS administered the Youth Truth Survey to all students. Most students in this school treat adults with respect Most adults in this school treat students with respect Discipline in this school is fair. Overall, CHAMPS students rate their belonging and peer collaboration as highly as students do at other participating schools.   On a relative basis, CHAMPS students agree more strongly with the following statement(s): I can usually be myself around other students at this school CHAMPS students agree to a similar degree with the following statement(s): Most students at this school are friendly to me I often work with other students for my classes because my teachers ask or tell me to CHAMPS students agree less strongly with the following statement(s): I really feel like part of my school's community I often work with other students for my classes, even when my teacher doesn't ask or tell me to.  CHAMPS reflected on these statements and added an advisory class where students meet on a weekly basis in small groups and meet monthly as a grade level. Each grade has selected officers. The officers lead the class meeting. The goal is to build a community.  We are in the initial stages of implementation.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
09100900123521|Charter Alternative Program (CAP)|6|We have made it an ongoing priority to continuously improve school culture, which benefits all students, and remains a key performance indicator for us.  The program maintains very high ratings from student, parents, and staff regarding a positive school culture.   A concerning trend across all programs has been the steady increase of students enrolling as a result of, and/or struggling with, a wide range of mental health related issues, including but not limited to anxiety, depression, and phobias.  We are very aware that at-risk students in general - including Foster Youth, McKinney-Vento students, and those with special needs - tend to arrive with greater emotional needs, so we have always made it a priority to provide support for those students; however, the steady increase of emotionally fragile students across all programs has raised new concerns.  We will continue to provide professional development for staff to support these students more effectively - both academically and emotionally. Additionally, we have added a .5 FTE Mental Health Coach for 2019-20 to support student wellness.  The school has seen great progress and success in creating and utilizing an annual climate survey to rate the school in 14 quality indicator areas, including school safety and connectedness.  Our Site Council approved the implementation of this stakeholder survey several years ago, which we use to gauge our success year to year.  Our Spring, 2019 survey demonstrates the following: * 87.2% of our stakeholders Strongly Agree or Agree that the school "Offers a variety of high-quality educational options for students."   * 87.7% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The school is a safe, clean, and positive place that nurtures learning."   * 91.5% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The program communicates with families through a variety of methods on a regular basis."   * 88.2% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The program welcomes and encourages parents to be partners in the child's education."  * 93.6% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The school's staff care about the success of students."|2019-10-01||Met|2019
54722565430269|Charter Alternatives Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
09100900930123|Charter Community School Home Study Academy|6|We have made it an ongoing priority to continuously improve school culture, which benefits all students, and remains a key performance indicator for us.  Although our independent study programs have traditionally enjoyed very high ratings by student and parents regarding a positive school culture, the ratings for CCP were generally significantly lower, which is very typical for a County-operated community school.  We are very proud, however, of the positive shifts seen over the past several years.  The school has utilized an annual climate survey to rate the school in 14 quality indicator areas, including school safety and connectedness.  Our Site Council approved the implementation of this stakeholder survey several years ago, which we use to gauge our success year to year.  Our Spring, 2019 survey demonstrates the following across all programs: * 87.2% of our stakeholders Strongly Agree or Agree that the school "Offers a variety of high-quality educational options for students."   * 87.7% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The school is a safe, clean, and positive place that nurtures learning."   * 91.5% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The program communicates with families through a variety of methods on a regular basis."   * 88.2% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The program welcomes and encourages parents to be partners in the child's education."  * 93.6% Strongly Agree/Agree that "The school's staff care about the success of students."|2019-10-01|A concerning trend across all programs has been the steady increase of students enrolling as a result of, and/or struggling with, a wide range of mental health related issues, including but not limited to anxiety, depression, and phobias.  We are very aware that at-risk students in general - including Foster Youth, McKinney-Vento students, and those with special needs - tend to arrive with greater emotional needs, so we have always made it a priority to provide support for those students; however, the steady increase of emotionally fragile students across all programs has raised new concerns.  We will continue to provide professional development for staff to support these students more effectively - both academically and emotionally.  Additionally, we have added a full time Mental Health Coach for 2019-20 to support student wellness.|Met|2019
54722566116909|Charter Home School Academy|6|Based on the key learnings from the survey, students and families reported that Charter Home School Academy has an overall positive school culture and climate.  For example, 97% of familes feel welcome when they arrive at school, 93% feel that their cultural differences are excepted, 95% feel they are treated fairly by their teachers and staff, and 94% feel like Charter Home School provides a caring and supportive environment for their student and family.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
09618380107227|Charter Montessori Valley View Campus|6|The following are results of the climate survey for 5th and 7th grade.  5th grade: I feel safe at school - 94% 7th grade: I feel safe at school - 77%  5th grade: I enjoy coming to school to see my friends - 100% 7th grade: I enjoy coming to school to see my friends - 97%  5th grade: I have positive relationships with teachers and other adults at school - 100% 7th grade: I have positive relationships with teachers and other adults at school - 83%  The results indicate students in 5th grade feel safe and connected at school. Somewhat lower levels of feeling safe and being connected to adults were noted among 7th graders. The site is implementing positive behavior intervention and strategies this year.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
19643780000000|Charter Oak Unified|6|Utilizing a local climate survey every other year, this indicator annually measures the LEA’s action of assessing its community’s perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to students in grades five, seven, nine and eleven in the 2017-18 school year.  It is scheduled to be administered again in December of the 2019-20 school year. Highlights from the 17-18 CHKS include differences in student perceptions of connectedness and school safety exist between the grade levels.   Fifth grade students report a higher level of connectedness and safety compared to seventh grade and an even higher level of connectedness and safety as compared to ninth and eleventh grade students.   A lower percentage of seventh, ninth, and eleventh grade students report that they have experienced harassment or bullying as compared to the state average.   Responses indicate that few students had fear of physical or emotional attacks at school.  While these trends indicate that students are feeling relatively safe and connected to their schools sites, national trends continue to indicate that overall perceptions of student connectedness and safety continue to decline.    The results from the administration of the  2019-20 California Healthy Kids Survey will be shared with the governing board when results are made available in the Spring of 2020.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
43695836118541|Charter School of Morgan Hill|6|CSMH staff administers student perception surveys twice a year to all students. These surveys were designed after the work done by the Measures of Effective Teachers (MET) project. The surveys focus on the following areas: Do students feel academically challenged, Do students feel that teachers have classroom control, Do students feel their teachers check for understanding, Do students feel engaged in learning, Do students feel connected to their teachers, and Do students feel their teachers care about them. The purpose of the surveys is for teachers to receive feedback from their students in order to improve their teaching and relationships with students. Taking a sampling of the surveys, CSMH students' responses in each of the above areas were over 80% as “mostly true” or “totally true. At the end of each school year, teachers are required to write a self-reflection based on the survey results.  In addition, CSMH also administered a student climate survey in January of 2018. Over 80% of the students responded "yes" to questions such as: CSMH is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn, Adults at this school treat all students with respect, Students at this school treat each other with respect, Bullying is not tolerated at CSMH, and I feel safe at school.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37683383730959|Charter School of San Diego|6|CSSD administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of CSSD’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of CSSD’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, CSSD has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, CSSD exceeded this metric. 97% of students reported that they felt safe at CSSD and 99% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at CSSD.  Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 CSSD’s suspension rates are 0% and expulsion rates are 0%. These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
50710500000000|Chatom Union|6|The Chatom Union School District administers an annual safety survey.  The results of the 2019 survey were as follows:  95% of students feel the rules and expectations of the school are clear and well known, 73% feel there are adequate resources to help in an emergency crisis and 88% of students feel the school has a way to recognize and reinforce positive behavior among students.  89% of students feel they can be successful at school, 88% feel safe at school, 80% feel happy to be at school and 83% feel there is support in the event of an emergency.  Students were also asked to rate areas of concern for safety. The top two areas of greatest concern included; bullying and dress code violations.  The two areas of least concern included; illegal weapons and graffiti within the school.|2019-10-08|A local climate survey that captures a valid measure of student perception of school safety is given annually to all students in grades 3rd-8th.  The survey is also sent to parents in their primary language representing all student groups.  The safety survey results were presented at a public Board Meeting and reviewed by the safety committee to increase safety at each site.|Met|2019
19647331931708|Chatsworth Charter High|6|Chatsworth Charter High administered the 2018 – 19 School Experience Survey during the spring semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate: 1. School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 83% 2. The percentage of students reporting being happy at school was 54% 3. The percentage of students who felt like they were a part of the school was 51% 4. The percentage of students who felt that adults treated them with respect was 46% All of the scores listed above are an increase from the 2017 - 18 school, but remain below LAUSD scores. We have determined that most of the low scores are a lack of communication among the stakeholders. We will increase our efforts to promote school activities through the outlets we have available. In addition we are starting several school social media pages that are popular among teens. We have already elected students to lead our School Site Council. We have implemented Quaglia's Student Voice and Engagement models to continue progress checks on our school climate.  We will find other ways to include students in non-traditional leadership roles as well as involving them in direct meetings with the administrators.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
20756060132936|Chawanakee Academy Charter|6|According to the Spring 2017 School Climate Survey, 87% of the parents rated the overall quality of our school (Do we prepare students to succeed?) as exceeding or meeting expectations.  In this same survey, 85% of the parents stated that they felt their child is safe at school.  According to the Spring 2017 School Climate Survey for students, 70% of the students agreed or strongly agree that the school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn.|2019-10-08|A new Climate Survey will be conducted during the 2019- 2020 school year.|Met|2019
20756060000000|Chawanakee Unified|6|1. The district has surveyed it's stakeholders annually.  The CUSD results are summarized directly from students surveys and specific parents input about student school safety and school connectedness.  K-12 results for feeling safe and feeling connected to school are on average 80%. 2. More high school students feel disconnected than K-8 students due to a perception of a lack of staff responsiveness to reports and a perception of a need to improve respect of diversity.  Closer to 90% of K-8 students feel safe and connected to their schools. 3. CUSD may elect to increase student input around strategies to increase feelings of connectedness. It will review staff development around responses to student reports and communication tools to ensure students are fully aware of outcomes and available/recommended resources and strategies. Districtwide "Awareness" campaigns with mini-workshops for students, staff and parents on topics of reporting, conflict resolution, diversity, and anti-bias.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
29663160125013|Chicago Park Community Charter|6|The annual CHKS was administered to students in grade 7, TK - 8th grade parents, and all staff in December 2018. Results were shared with Staff, the Site Council, and School Board and made available to all other parties upon request in February 2019. The annual LCAP survey was conducted in February 2019, and reached all staff members, parents, and students in grades TK/K-8.  Results were shared with Staff, the Site Council and School Board and made available to all other parties upon request in March 2019.  The results of the survey were very positive. 85% of students felt that Chicago Park School was a welcoming and friendly place. 80% of staff felt that Chicago Park provided a safe environment for students to learn in.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
29663160000000|Chicago Park Elementary|6|The annual CHKS was administered to students in grade 7, TK - 8th grade parents, and all staff in December 2018. Results were shared with Staff, the Site Council, and School Board and made available to all other parties upon request in February 2019. The annual LCAP survey was conducted in February 2019, and reached all staff members, parents, and students in grades TK/K-8.  Results were shared with Staff, the Site Council and School Board and made available to all other parties upon request in March 2019.  The results of the survey were very positive. 85% of students felt that Chicago Park School was a welcoming and friendly place. 80% of staff felt that Chicago Park provided a safe environment for students to learn in.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
04614246113773|Chico Country Day|6|Chico Country Day School, a public charter school, administers surveys each year to students. This allows our school to understand the student experience and hear the student voice. As a result, the school can shift programs, create changes, and respond to the student's perceptions. Our local surveys are adapted each year to include questions about the academic program, school climate, student social emotional well being and learning, and school safety. If LCAP goals can be made relevant to that age group, those are included. Surveys are tailored to the grade level while feedback about classroom instruction and school climate is gathered.  The 2018/19 survey results were analyzed by staff and administration and shifts made to address students needs.  In grades 2-5 students responded they felt supported at school 97%, safe at school 99%, were happy to come to school 97%, wanted to do well academically 92%, have been hit or pushed when not at play  10% , felt adults would help them in any way 97% In grades 6-8 students responded they felt supported at school 92%, safe at school 93%, wanted to do well academically 97%, felt students were nice to one another 76%, have been hit or pushed when not at play 15% , felt adults would help them in any way 80%   90% of parents reported they “strongly believe” their child is emotionally and physically safe at CCDS. These shifts look different in each classroom but some include providing more or less time for project work, amplifying teacher voices if the students cannot hear clearly, adjusting schedules so students can ask questions and get individualized help, providing social emotional skill lessons, and self-critiquing progress in a subject area.   Initiated in 2017/2018, the Student Risk Screening Scale-IE (SRSS-IE)is completed by classroom teachers three times during the school year. The SRSS-IE assessment is a universal screening tool that helps identify students who are at risk for internalizing or externalizing behavioral difficulties. Responding to these students with additional support may prevent their behavior problems from escalating over time. In addition to screening for individual students, schools use the SRSS-IE to look at school-wide data for program evaluation.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
04614240000000|Chico Unified|6|The Education for the Future survey (through Chico State University) is administered yearly to all parents, 3rd-12th grade students and all staff. It provides a historical overview in a cross section of areas regarding school climate and culture encompassing areas such as relationships, educational opportunities, safety, etc. Results are reviewed by district officials, site leaders and School Site Councils. An overview of the results of the survey are included in the Chico Unified Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) for 2019-2020. The specific metric related to the survey in Goal 5 of the Chico Unified LCAP focuses on survey items related to safety and fairness. All items related to safety and fairness averaged at least a 3 ("Agree"). Through the Athlete Committed program, participating high school athletes take a survey of lifestyle choices, including drug and alcohol use. Results are reviewed by administrators, coaches, parents and students. Since it's inception in Chico Unified, the Athlete Committed program has resulted in a decrease of reported drug and alcohol use among student athletes, as reported to the board during the 2018-2019 school year.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19646340121186|Children of Promise Preparatory Academy|6|1. DATA: Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned. COPPA staff developed a student survey to measure aspects of the school culture and climate.  COPPA administered the survey to students in grades 5 and 8 during the 2018-19 school year.  The survey measured student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  It included the following questions:  Do you feel safe at school (65% said yes); Do you feel supported by teachers (81% said yes).  Key learnings from the survey include the need to strengthen our schoolwide Positive Behavior Supports Intervention program to ensure that all students feel safe and supported by the entire school community.    2. MEANING: What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers? The results of the survey and other data revealed that while there are many positive aspects of the school climate, there is a need to focus on the culture and systems around student behavior and social emotional learning. 3. USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking?  As a result, we created a system for tracking student behaviors and defined the interventions at each level, under the model of Conscious Discipline, an approach we have recently adopted. The approach emphasizes the teaching and reinforcement of self-awareness and self-regulation for students. We received training and have planned for and begun the schoolwide implementation of Conscious Discipline in the 19-20 school year.    We also added more activities and structure for our afterschool program as well in order to increase engagement and reduce behavioral concerns.  We analyzed and revised our transitions to be clearer and smoother.  We increased instructional coaching for teachers and feedback to teachers to help them develop a classroom culture aligned with the approach.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
04615316113765|Children's Community Charter|6|Data:  Due to the 2018 Camp Fire, CCCS chose not to administer climate surveys because of the severity of the traumatic event. Meaning:  It is our goal to administer climate surveys to parents and students in early Fall of the 2019-2020 school year in order to gauge conditions concerning safety.  Currently, our staff is being trained on Trauma-Informed Systems of Support by BCOE as well as being trained on Positive Behavior Systems of Support (PBIS).  We value learning what research based systems support when rolling out a whole school social-emotional program.  It is our goal to deliver a Social Emotional Learning curriculum to all students TK-8th grade.  Our staff has been trained to deliver a SEL curriculum to enhance a sense of safety and expectation. It is our goal to collect 90% of student climate surveys from our K-8th grade students.  It is our goal to collect 80% parent climate surveys.  We plan to use the survey information to put systems in place to address the needs.|2019-11-14|Overall, CCCS has documented high positive climate survey data in the past.  Because of the unusual 2019-2019 school year due to the Camp Fire, we were unable to collect survey data.  However, it is our plan to collect survey data twice a year in order to effectively determine student and parent needs.|Met|2019
19647336119531|CHIME Institute's Schwarzenegger Community|6|CHIME administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey to all 5th and 7th grade students.  139 students participated in the survey, which measured their perceptions on school safety, connectedness and adult-student interactions.  86% of students feel like they are part of this school.  93% of students think the teachers treat students fairly at school.  91% of students feel that teachers and other grown-ups at school care about them.  93% of students think that teachers and other grown-ups at school listen when they have something to say.  98% of students think that teachers and other grown-up at school treat students with respect.  91% of students feel the school helps students resolve conflicts with one another.  93% of students think the teachers and other grown-ups at school believe they can do a good job.  94% of students feel the school teaches students to feel responsible for how they act.  89% of students think the students at school are well behaved.  93% of students think the teachers and other grown-ups make it clear that bullying is not allowed.  90% of students feel that if they tell a teacher they’ve been bullied, the teacher will do something to help.  88% of students feel safe at school.  96% of students feel safe on their way to and from school.  Based on the positive results, CHIME will continue to implement school-wide events that facilitate positive social interactions among all students.  Our SEL department provides active therapeutic services per IEP requirements and on an as needed basis to individual students.  The team consists of one full-time school counselor, two part-time school psychologists and one part-time mentor specifically dedicated to 6th-8th grade. We have convened a team of teacher-leaders and administrators to form a MTSS team. The team attended a 3 day MTSS conference in July 2018 and then attend monthly trainings through our county office during the 2018-19 school year. This MTSS team now convenes every other week, on-site. During the 2019-20 school year, the MTSS team is working on sampling and piloting various SEL curriculum and strategies, as well as supporting the school staff in year 1 of implementing restorative practices on campus. Members of this same team also applied for and were selected to attend eight certified Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports Tier I trainings, facilitated by COP during the 2019-20 school year. Currently, we are in “year zero” of adopting school-wide PBIS systems. In order to better serve our students’ Social Emotional needs, as well as to build teacher capacity for providing interventions and supports embedded into classroom practices.  We are in year one of utilizing the MTSS framework, year one of implementing restorative practices, and year zero of implementing PBIS. At this time, school staff, students and community members are invested in the work and bought in, as indicated by attendance of professional developments held on site and parent engagement workshops.|2019-11-05|The school-wide events and programs mentioned above include; National Bullying Prevention Month, Spirit Weeks, pep rallies, peer mentors, lunch clubs, parent workshops and themed assemblies for students and parents.  All service providers use the “push-in” approach to deliver service minutes, as well as work with teachers and paraprofessionals to meet the needs and goals of the students in the class. We believe this model is not only effective, but vital to creating an inclusive environment that positively affects the social-emotional well-being of all students.|Met|2019
36676780000000|Chino Valley Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is scheduled to be administered for the 2019-2020 school year to students in grades 6-12. Based on the results of the 2017-2018 California Healthy Kids Survey, 72% agreed to strongly agreed that their school was safe, and 70% reported that they agreed or strongly agreed that there were structures, supports, and staff members at school to keep them connected to school. A sample size of 7,033 students participated in the 2017-2018 survey.    The School Quality Survey was administered for the 2018-2019 school year to students in grades 6-11. Based on the responses from 9,933 students, 74% reported that their school was safe, and 84% of the students reported that there were structures, support, and staff in place to keep them connected to school and to assist them with personal problems.   The results of the 2018-2019 School Quality Survey provide data supporting an increase in students feeling connected to their school as compared to the 2017-2018 results of 72% reporting that they felt connected to their school. There was a slight decrease in students reporting that they felt that their school was safe.    There was an increase in school connectedness reported by the students in the most recent School Quality Survey. Positive Behavioral Interventions and Support (PBIS) began with grades Preschool through 8th grade in 2016-2017. PBIS implementation was initiated at the comprehensive high schools in the 2018-19 school year. Implementation at the alternative secondary programs begins in 2019-2020 school year.    PBIS is a systems-based, multi-tiered framework that aims to help improve academics, reduce problem behavior, increase attendance, reduce bullying, and improve social and emotional competency of students. Both students and teachers benefit greatly from these practices in positive ways, such as positive school climates, the ensured safety within our schools, encouraged good behavior, and positive student educator relationships. There were 26 schools that were recognized in 2018-2019 for their work and commitment to our students.|2019-04-18||Met|2019
20651930000000|Chowchilla Elementary|6|Students were surveyed answered 31 questions ranging on topics from school cleanliness and safety to feeling connected. 230 K-5th  Responses Key Learnings:       40% of the students moved 1 or more times during the school year      99% feel school staff care about them      95% plan to go to college      just under 7% have had mean rumors spread about them via social media      85% feel safe at school, those with concerns noted outside surroundings as issue, not issues on campus      8% never feel safe outside of school      25% struggle with understanding how other people feel      80%-90% feel parents are encouraging and believe in them      70% like to work alone      70% feel confident in math and in writing  184 6-8 responses Key Learnings:       35% of the students moved 1 or more times during the school year      97% feel school staff care about them      96% plan to go to college      just under 11% have had mean rumors spread about them via social media      75% feel safe at school, those with concerns noted outside surroundings as issue, not issues on campus      7% never feel safe outside of school      23% struggle with understanding how other people feel      80%-90% feel parents are encouraging and believe in them      70% like to work alone      >70% feel confident in math and in writing  Meaning and Use of Data: Moving one or more times per school year is unsettling for most of us.  In Chowchilla, 30-40% of our students report moving with ½ of those reporting moving two or more times a year.  Feeling connected at school becomes even more of a necessity for these students.  Nearly all students report feeling cared for by teachers and other school staff.  Continuing to build relationships with our students and their families will continue to be an area of focus.  CSED has employed additional staff to support counseling efforts aimed at self-care and building positive relationships.    Mindfulness training has taken place for all staff and staff are embedding Mindfulness strategies throughout the day in an effort to help students counteract stress and build in strategies for re-centering.  Staff, students and parents have expressed appreciation for the support of the Mindfulness strategies.  Growth in student ELA and Math proficiency is evident through work samples.  There is a focus of improving each student’s ability to problem solve and communicate effectively as these are seen as essential life skills.   Roughly 95% of the students surveyed noted that they have plans to continue on to college, yet the local high school matriculation rate is far less.  CESD staff will work to build supports through conversations with families and local agencies of higher education to bridge access opportunities for Chowchilla students desiring to attend college.  These efforts will include conversations between CESD/Chowchilla Union High School staff and members of UC Merced, Merced Community College, West Hills Comm. College and Coastline College|2019-09-30||Met|2019
20652010000000|Chowchilla Union High|6|Chowchilla Union High School District administered the Healthy Kids Survey to all freshman and junior students along with all students enrolled at Gateway Continuation School in 2019. The survey results highlighted several key areas of strength and growth. Areas of strength were found throughout the category of "school engagement and supports." For example, the sub-category of academic motivation had 70% of 9th graders, 72% of 11th graders and 73% of Gateway students respond favorably. Similar scores were also recorded in the sub-categories of school connectedness, caring adult relationships and high expectations. Within the category of "School Safety," fewer than 15% of students responded negatively in the sub-categories of being afraid, fighting or seeing a weapon within the last year. Gateway School had 75% of students respond favorably in the sub-category of the school being perceived as very safe or safe. In the category of "Substance Use and Mental Health" all numbers of use were low at less than fifteen percent of freshman reporting use within the last 30 days of alcohol, marijuana, binge drinking, smoking or electronic cigarettes. Juniors were low (15% or less reporting use in the last 30 days) in all areas except alcohol (23%). Several areas of growth were highlighted by the Healthy Kids Survey given to students in 2019. For example, the sub-category of experiencing chronic sadness was high (over 35%) for freshman, juniors and Gateway students. Perceived school safety was high at Gateway (75%) but only at 43% for freshman and 48% for juniors at CUHS. A breakdown of the results by race or ethnicity showed slight differences in responses but none that were significant. A breakdown of responses by gender showed some significant differences. For example, 15% or more freshman males than females responded positively in the area of total school supports, caring adults in school, high expectations-adults in school, school connectedness and parent involvement in school. Significant differences in responses based on gender were not observed for juniors. Gateway students were not disaggregated by gender due to the small number of students within that population. A significant difference in response based on gender was also noted in the category of perceived safety at school, harassment/bullying at school and mental health with the number of freshman girls at or close to double that of freshman boys with unfavorable responses in several sub-categories. A breakdown by gender for juniors did not show a significant difference except in the area of chronic sadness. More exploration into gender differences especially regarding mental health is needed and a continuing focus on mental health for female students is needed. All students currently have access to a counselor and a full-time psychologist. A continuing emphasis on increasing perceptions of school safety also needs to be addressed. CUHS is currently working on implementing PBIS on campus.|2019-10-28|CUHS recently implemented Schoolwide Expectations on campus as a result of analyzing the Healthy Kids Survey and in an effort to increase school connectedness and safety. All classrooms now have a universal policy with regard to bathroom use, cell phone use, turning in late-work, etc. These policies have been put in place in order to keep students in class, increase school unity and allow opportunities to positively reinforce good behavior. For example, students who do not use all of their bathroom passes are entered into an incentive drawing. Additionally, a team of 10 staff members are receiving ongoing professional development in PBIS in an effort to bring the system to our school. Members of the team visited model PBIS campuses last year and this year in order to find effective PBIS practices we can bring to our school sites. So far teachers, students, parents and administrative staff have responded favorably to the CUHS Schoolwide Expectations. Anecdotal evidence such as observing fewer students out of class during class time indicates that the new policies are having a positive impact on student learning. Furthermore, anecdotal evidence from students and teachers show that students are benefiting from not having their cell phones out during class time. Additionally, CUHS has expanded our TAPS program into Tribe Time. Tribe Time classes meet each week to work on TAPS, analyze and develop goals for grades and develop character using the Character Strong curriculum.|Met|2019
45104540111674|Chrysalis Charter|6|We administered a parent and student satisfaction survey in early 2019. Of the 40 parents responding to the survey question “Is your student thriving at Chrysalis”, 52.5% responded “Yes”, 37.5% responded “Usually”, 10% responded “Sometimes” and none responded “No”. We also asked whether parents felt like staff is their partner in educating their child, 75% responded “Yes”, 17.5% responded “Usually”, 2.5% responded “Sometimes”, and only 5% responded “No”.  Of the 18 students responding to the survey question “Are you thriving at Chrysalis”, 83.3% responded “Yes”, 16.7% responded “Usually”, and none responded “Sometimes” or “No”. Clearly, on the whole, parents and students are pleased with the school and the environment we provide for our students. Our teachers and board reviewed the survey results and pulled out themes that we can use to further enhance our programs. There was consistent praise for the communication between school and home, our science and nature programs, our strong community, the amazing teaching staff, kind community, and thriving students. One parent said: “The teachers and aides have done such an amazing job of fostering a love of learning in my kids. They make learning fun and teach from their own passions! It is more time consuming and takes more effort on their parts, but the kids gain so much. Their concern for the kids shows in their day to day interactions with them and I appreciate this. They genuinely care and it shows. Thank you teachers (and aides!) for creating classrooms in which our kids have the opportunity to thrive. I feel so lucky that my kids have had these wonderful teachers at Chrysalis.” On the other hand, some parents feel we have room to grow with increasing performance arts and sports opportunities; high school transition support; improving hot lunch options; focusing less on the ‘problem kids’, and communication about missing work. Students thought we could have more activities on the playground, reducing trash, having more activities, and making it more kind.  In the past year, we have taken action on several of these recommendations.        *   To address parent's request for increasing performance arts and sports opportunities, we added art classes and a K-8 soccer program.       *   To address parent's request for improving hot lunches, we are switching lunch providers and the way we serve student lunches.      *   To address parent's request for high school transition support, we are partnering with several local high schools to receive the same information that “feeder schools” get.       *   To address concerns about focusing on the ‘problem kids’ we worked together as a staff to craft a more consistent, streamlined, and structured plan for dealing with misbehavior.      *   To address students' desire for more activities on the playground, we have implemented the Peaceful Playground program and split the students K-4 versus 5-8 so that there are less students out on the playground at any given|2019-10-09||Met|2019
27659950000000|Chualar Union|6|Chualar Union School district administered a locally created survey in the Fall of 2018-19. The target sample was 72 students in grades fourth and eight. The returned response rate was 95%. The survey was available in both languages; Spanish and English. Students in both grades responded to the survey in a paper hard-copy. Our results serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate. Because it is our first year adopting this approach to monitor school safety and connectedness, the survey overall results for 2018 cannot be compared to those reported in 2016. Our respondents were 60% boys and 40% were girls. In the area of School Connectedness, an average of 84% of respondents answered: "All of the time" or "Most of the time" to the following questions. 1) I feel close to people at school. 2) I am happy at this school. 3) I feel like I am part of this school. 4) Teachers treat students fairly at school. When asked about school safety, an average of 89% of students responded "All of the time" or “Most of the time” to the following questions 1) I feel safe at school. 2) I feel safe on my way to and from school. 3) I am nice to other students. Chualar Union School District will analyze and use these results to address key findings that need improvement. In Spring of 2019 CUSD administrators met with a group of our middle school school body The district anticipates using the results of this survey as a baseline to compare to surveys in the future. Chualar Union School district is committed to supporting students with both their academic and social emotional needs. The district has implemented Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports at school. Teachers are provided with professional development opportunities that support the implementation of positive instructional strategies that promote positive and safe learning environments for all students. The district will continue to provide these services and monitor their effectiveness. Chualar Union School District plans on administering and reporting on another Local School Climate survey for students in the Spring of 2020.|2019-06-28||Met|2019
37680230000000|Chula Vista Elementary|6|The Hanover Survey is completed annually by staff, parents, and students. Below are the key findings that measure student social emotional learning (SEL) in grades 4-6 in the Chula Vista Elementary School District for 2018-2019: On a scale of 1-5 (1-Strongly Disagree to 5-Strongly Agree): Students show positive scores across all seven SEL constructs with the strongest area being social awareness. On this 5-point scale, students report an average score of at least 4.0 across all constructs. Social awareness continued to stand out as the strongest construct with an average score of 4.45, while the remaining construct scores range from 4.0 to 4.07. Overall, these scores suggest that students who responded to this survey feel that CVESD supports their social and emotional needs and development. An area for improvement is that many students continue to indicate that they are not confident in their ability to handle stress. While over half of respondents respond positively to all items regarding their social emotional well-being, only 54 percent indicate that they know how to handle stress. Notably, 24 percent of students indicate that they “disagree” or “strongly disagree” that they know how to handle stress. CVESD will continue to implement 15 minutes, per day, of SEL instruction to support students, particularly students who have experienced significant trauma. We will continue to monitor the success of this initiative through the Hanover survey at the end of the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37680236115778|Chula Vista Learning Community Charter|6|The Chula Vista Learning Community Charter School annually monitors stakeholder input through a Hanover Survey, as well as surveys conducted at the elementary, middle and high schools (TEN Survey- Teaching for Effective Learning and LCAP Needs Assessment, English Learner Parent Survey).  Data Results describing areas of strength, room for improvement, challenges, and barriers are shared through multiple avenues (Charter Board Meetings, Advisory Council, and School Committees). Results of the survey reveal that school safety (physical and emotional) is highly rated by both adults and students (93%).  One key finding is to provide extra-curricular programs after-school at all school sites (Robotics, Art, Computer Coding).  Although the school provides restorative structures, students and parents rated the need for additional counseling at middle and high school (75%). As a result of findings, The Chula Vista Learning Community Charter School has planned to integrate after-school programs at the elementary, middle and high schools (Programs include Theater, Choir, Music, Art and content-based academic tutoring).  The school is currently researching Robotics programs.  The school hired and additional school psychologist and provided additional support in the counseling area.  The school is currently monitoring results for the effectiveness of implemented actions. One of the barriers or challenges that the school confronts at the middle and high schools is the space for extra-curricular activities.  The school currently partners with city parks and recreation departments to provide facility use.|2019-10-14|N/A|Met|2019
33671736032411|Cielo Vista Charter|6|After looking carefully at our Winter 2018-19 Panorama results we have learned that there is a 10% gap between our elementary grades and our middle school grades. In grades 3-5 90% of our students feel there is a climate present that supports all children to achieve academically in the classroom. In contrast, 80% of our students in grades 6-8 feel that this same environment exists for them.  An alarming gap that we have also identified was in the area of Safety. 76% of students in grades 3-5 answered favorably on panorama survey in regards to feeling emotionally safe at school. In contrast, 57% of our students in grades 6-8 answered favorably on the survey. An area that we have been addressing is the spreading of rumors, and the teasing of one another. We have continued our restorative practices and have utilized the healing circles to overcome these challenges.   In the past, we addressed community through being part of a family integrated with Character Counts. While traditional punitive methods for addressing student behavior were consistently used to deter undesirable behaviors.  The focus was on treating others the way we wanted to be treated, while correcting the negative behavior with consequences. While this was somewhat effective in deterring negative behavior overall, it did not re-establish the broken relationships and assist students with moving forward and healing the harm that had been created with their choices.  As a K-8, we found that harms were being carried forward within our school community and between individuals for several years.   We have a need to establish a system for restoring the harm that was created within our family environment.  Staff, students, parents, and board members, have participated in multiple trainings to learn how to effectively build a restorative culture. The trainings have included information on proactive and restorative circles, affective statements and questions, connection before content, and the social discipline window.    In the future, we will continue to develop our skills in restorative practices and expand them to meet the various needs of our school community.  We will continue to seek out the expertise of others who have been utilizing this approach to culture and discipline as coaches for our developmental journeys.  Our goal is to continue to bring the ideas and philosophies of restorative practices to our families and the community that surrounds our students’ daily lives.|2019-10-29|We believe that as a school it is our privilege, and our responsibility, to educate our staff, students, and families in relational skills that will positively build a strong sense of community. Our goal is to develop a community where all members experience a sense of belonging and are able to thrive.  Our desire as a school is to continue to walk with staff, students and families through their personal journey of development.  As a community, we strive to meet each individual where they are and assist them in reaching their highest potential by providing the support that is necessary to reach high expectations.  We utilize restorative practices as a tool to assist us in creating our restorative community.  Restorative practices focus on connection before content, meeting the innate need of all humans to connect through interpersonal relationships.  We utilize proactive circles to build the community and strengthen the bonds of our relationships.  As humans we are all going to make mistakes and fall short of the high expectations that the community has established, in turn causing harm/ needs that need to be addressed to continue the relationship. Affective statements are used to express the harm or need that was created by the behavior that initiated the need for restoration. Personal reflection and restorative circles are an opportunity for everyone who is affected in the community to voice their perspective and listen to the perspective of others.|Met|2019
35674620000000|Cienega Union Elementary|6|A school climate survey has been locally created and distributed to both parents and students in April of 2019.  The survey was available in both Spanish and English.  Students in grades 5 to 8 were given the opportunity to respond to the survey.  Results of the survey showed that parents are satisfied with the school and the way it is performing.  Students generally feel safe and connected to the school.  A few students felt the need for better relationships with the staff.  This issue is being addressed by staff attempts to make a connection with each student.  It is a staff priority to help all students feel comfortable and safe.|2019-09-12|No additional information|Met|2019
49706496051635|Cinnabar Charter|6|The Healthy Kids Survey was taken last year by 6-8 grade students.  Students continue to work with our physical education teacher learning proper nutrition, ways to exercise better, and after starting our culinary kitchen, will have hands-on experience making their own healthy meals.  Many of the districts barriers include socio-disadvantaged families but we continue to encourage parents to attend educational training at the district office.  The parent training will diversify based on the needs of its community.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49706490000000|Cinnabar Elementary|6|The Healthy Kids Survey was taken last year by 6-8 grade students.  Students continue to work with our physical education teacher learning proper nutrition, ways to exercise better, and after starting our culinary kitchen, will have hands-on experience making their own healthy meals.  Many of the districts barriers include socio-disadvantaged families but we continue to encourage parents to attend educational training at the district office.  The parent training will diversify based on the needs of its community.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
01611760130534|Circle of Independent Learning|6|Coil administers its annual Parent and Student survey from April 2019 to June 7, 2019.  For the 2018-19 SY, 89 COIL parents and 75 COIL students participated in the survey.  The low response was disappointing despite the use of multiple notification methods to solicit participation including, the COIL website, Facebook, Newsletter, ParentSquare and teacher advisors.  All grade levels were represented with 8th-grade students being the highest.  Parents of 10th and 11th-grade students were the highest responders of the parent survey. Over 60% of the parent and student respondents had been at COIL for 2 years or less, which is consistent with the recent growth in the overall student population these past two years.    Of the survey respondents, 75% of the parents reported that their child participated in onsite classes/labs and/or enrichment classes and 78% of the students reported their participation with a high overall satisfaction rating of 4.2 out of 5.  With respect to parents and students willingness to participate in specific workshops and/or seminars, over 40% of parents noted they would like to receive instruction on "Creating an environment conducive to learning at home", "how to prepare your child for life after graduation" and "21st Century skills". These are consistent with the parent seminars that are planned for the 2019-2020 school year. 58% of students would like additional instruction on career Exploration and time management. For the 2019-2020 school year, all 9th and 10th-grade students will participate in a career exploration class for an elective course. This opportunity was made possible through the College Readiness grant and is consistent with what the student expressed as their greatest willingness to participate in.   Overall, COIL received strong ratings in all areas. Both students and parents report very highly in all areas but especially so in the areas of "using a variety of communication tools", "fostering positive character and sense of belonging", "feeling respected and welcome" and that "they would not hesitate to recommend COIL to family, friends and the community in general". One of the specific need areas highlighted over the past few years was the need for more communication. COIL has continued to focus on streamlining the ability to effectively communicate out to our families. The result of this was positively reflected in the survey responses. While all but one response averages were above a "4", there continues to be some disparities between responses from parents and students with parents expressing greater satisfaction than students.   Students reported the lowest score in "knowing that COIL offers a licensed therapist on-site if students need support for any issues they are experiencing". The second-lowest area reported by the students is their desire for more social interaction opportunities. Currently, COIL does provide Prom, Pl day, leadership activities, field trips, and volunteer opportunities.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647330122556|Citizens of the World Charter School Hollywood|6|As reported in the 18-19 annual family survey, ninety-one (91) percent of families feel inspired and connected to the school’s mission while eighty-five (85) percent of families feel the school is realizing its school mission. Seventy-two (72) percent of our families felt like our school was safe. The LEA will continue the administration of the annual family survey to engage stakeholders in continuous improvement strategies throughout the various engagement opportunities offered during the school year.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
19647330126193|Citizens of the World Charter School Mar Vista|6|The results of the 18-19 family survey show that 72% of families agreed/strongly agreed that their child's school is safe. In addition, 87% of families felt inspired by the school’s mission and values while 68% of families felt that the school is realizing its mission and core values. The LEA will continue the administration of the annual family survey to engage stakeholders in continuous improvement strategies throughout the various engagement opportunities offered during the school year.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
19647330126177|Citizens of the World Charter School Silver Lake|6|As reported in the 18-19 annual family survey, nearly 91% of families feel inspired and connected to the school’s mission while 86% of families feel the school is realizing its school mission. The LEA will continue the administration of the annual family survey to engage stakeholders in continuous improvement strategies throughout the various engagement opportunities offered during the school year.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
30103060134940|Citrus Springs Charter|6|During the 2018-19 school year, students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). Student survey results were reported to the school in elementary (grades 3-5), middle school (grades 6-8), and high school (9-12) results groups.  The elementary survey’s Summary of Key Indicators states that nearly 90% of students feel safe at school and over 90% feel that students are treated fairly.  Students also reported that the school has an anti-bullying climate (85%), there is a high level of parent involvement in schooling (83%), adults in school hold high expectations of students (88%), students have social and emotional learning supports (80%) and academic motivation (84%).  At the middle school level, 80% of students reported that they felt safe or very safe, and zero participants reported having experiences with substance use.  Students also reported that they fell academic motivation (85%), adults in school hold high expectations (94%), and they experience school connectedness (74%).  Areas of concern included student mental health, 13% of elementary students and 20% of middle school students reported to experience sadness/hopelessness. At the middle school level, 67% reported to have experienced gossip, and 47% reported to have been called bad names or targeted for mean jokes.   The MTSS leadership had a data analysis meeting and highlighted the summary data for the student center, regarding school culture and student well-being. MTSS administrators sent the full report to the principal and the administrative director of Professional development and made recommendations.  The school is in year 1 of implementing Habits of Success to address the "Springs Has Heart" goal and emphasize the importance of addressing the social emotional needs of our students as well as academics.  In 2017-18, as part of the 2018 LCAP Stakeholder survey, all students were asked to complete 25 questions from the School Climate module of the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS).  Response options were: yes, Neutral/I don’t know, or no.  Positive perception questions focus on topics such as learning in a program that they like, with helpful teachers and interesting activities, within a safe and connected environment.  Student in grades 3-12 were surveyed.  Students responded positively to 77% of the questions, indicating an overall positive perception of the school’s climate.  The two statements with the highest ratings were: “I get along with people who are different than me,” and “I think students enjoy doing things with each other.”  The two statements with the lowest positive ratings were: “I think students pay attention in class,” and “I think students usually follow the rules at school.”  These and more detailed results were reported to the Governing Board during the LCAP process in June 2019.  The school plans to include a segment of the CHKS again in the 2020-21 school year, meeting the State Priority 6 requirements.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
38684780107300|City Arts and Tech High|6|At CAT, we administered surveys to collect both student and parent perceptions around school climate. Based on our results, 68% of students responded favorably to questions around school safety, 52% of students responded favorably to questions around teacher-student relationships, and 35% of students responded favorably to questions around sense of belonging. 85% of students felt respected by their teachers. We partnered with PanoramaEd to conduct these surveys and were able to compare our survey results across a national benchmark on these school climate indicators. In looking at high schools with a similar FRL population in an urban setting, we found that we are in the 90th percentile on the topic of school safety. At CAT, 86% of our students responded favorably about not being bullied online by a classmate, 76% of our students responded favorably about not getting into physical fights, and 81% of our students responded favorably about violence at the school. At CAT, we are focused on increasing sense of belonging amongst students. We plan to engage our Leadership Council comprised of students, staff, and families, along with our larger school community in thinking about ways to strengthen student-staff relationships, and create positive school-wide events that will foster a stronger sense of connection amongst our students.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
37683380124347|City Heights Preparatory Charter|6|We administered surveys to students, staff, and families. We asked for feedback on safety, and overall school climate, both inside and outside classrooms. In these feedback sessions, students expressed a desire for more elective classes and the offering of AP courses. We proceeded by revamping the school schedule, allowing for shorter class times to incorporate daily elective courses for middle school and high-school. We also created time to allow availability of both science and history to all students in middle school. Additionally, we offer more AP and Honors - a total of 4 for high school students. Another recommendation was followed up by offering SAT prep and networking with UCSD for weekly Friday tutoring. In regards to student feedback, we dropped student uniforms to be increasingly reflective of students and allow for broader personal expression. School identity was additionally emphasized as we created a logo and mascot, allowing students to vote and creating a panther mascot that reflected a student survey. We also emphasized clubs in greater number and variety, many of which are student led as of this year. A peer mentor program where high schoolers can mentor middle schoolers was also initiated. All high school seniors are also taking dual enrollment at City College. School-wide AVID has also been implemented. Alongside this, we also hired full-time school counselor to meet the social and academic needs of all students.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19647330127886|City Language Immersion Charter|6|CLIC annually administers the Panorama Education CORE District survey and includes supplemental questions about student sense of safety and belonging. This survey allows us to review year-over-year growth (for the past 4 years), and compares our outcomes to a nationally normed score as well.|2019-10-24|2018-19 Students Survey: 94% of students rated culture and climate favorably (down 1%)  96% rate educational excellence favorably (down 1%)  77% favorably rated the climate of support for academic learning (teachers going out of their way to help students) (down 4%)   2018-19 Family Survey (227 respondents out of approximately 300): % favorable ratings: 94% Climate of support for academic learning  92% knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules, and norms  94% safety  96% sense of belonging/connectedness  (proportional across subgroups - within 5%)|Met|2019
01612590115386|Civicorps Corpsmember Academy|6|Civicorps administers a participant program survey at least once per year. The survey captures participant perspectives in such areas as learning environment, academic instruction, support service needs, college and career preparation, safety, and belonging.  The Spring 2019 survey had 90 respondents (approximately 75% response rate) and reflected Civicorps areas of strength, as well as helped to identify areas for targeted improvement.   Some of the key findings on program climate include: 80% of participants agree to strongly agree that they “feel a sense of belonging at Civicorps” and “feel connected to the Civicorps community”; 88% of participants stated that they would definitely recommend Civicorps to friends and family, and one student reported, “I never liked school but Civicorps changed that, I actually like waking up and going to school.” Other key feedback was 88% of students agree to strongly agree that Civicorps is a safe space and most powerfully, 91% of students agree (with 73% strongly agreeing) that they have “at least one staff member who I can go to for help”. At Civicorps we strive to a build strong positive community. While survey results were overall strong, based on written in responses, we have implemented a Transportation Assistance Program that will pay for individual commute costs beyond $100/month.  A washer and dryer are being installed at the Job Training Center, and we are exploring ways to expand the food program. Civicorps will also be providing staff training on communication and team building in hopes of reducing feelings of favoritism that were mentioned more than once in the feedback.|2019-05-15||Met|2019
19643940000000|Claremont Unified|6|Combined results from 2019 LCAP Student Survey (grades 4-12) show that: • 71% of CUSD students enjoy going to school  • 90% of students responded that their teachers care about them  • 85% of students reported that they are treated fairly by adults on campus • 1,905 secondary students reported that they were involved in school sponsored extracurricular/co-curricular activities  The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered every other year. The following are results from the 2018 CHKS administration:  Key Indicators Elementary: 34% response rate in 5th grade 84% of students feel safe at school most of the time/all of the time 84% students were treated with respect most of the time/all of the time 83% reported moderate/high meaningful participation at school 98% reported moderate/high school connectedness 89% reported moderate/high academic motivation   Secondary: 82% response rate for grades 7, 9, 11, and alternative schools (CDS/SAHS) 37% reported that they receive free or reduced lunch 22% reported other languages than English reported at home 59% reported moderate/high meaningful participation at school 87% reported moderate/high school connectedness 67% reported moderate/high academic motivation 65% perceive their school as being very safe or safe 34% experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness  86% of parents reported that they feel the school campus(es) is/are safe  Our District’s focus is to ensure that students feel safe and connected at school.  Through LCAP surveys and student focus group meetings, it was clear that all stakeholder groups felt there was a need for more socio-emotional learning and mental health training which the District has increased for the 2019-20 school year.   We will continue to assess our programs and survey staff and students for ideas as to how to increase their engagement with school and finding ways to increase students’ feelings of safety.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
09618380136200|Clarksville Charter|6|Our climate survey results indicate the majority of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that they felt connected to school, majority of the respondents also agreed or strongly agreed the students looked forward to school each day and their teacher was engaging, contacted with the family and provided academic support to the student.   Students shared how they could connect with their teachers via phone, e-mail, online learning platform (blackboard, Zoom), or in-person while having access to assistance as needed from the Principal or counselor. We are working toward improving students’ sense of belonging during live online courses The students stated they felt connected to the school through the educational field trips, enrichment activities, and other social events offered through the school, such as zoo days, school dances, field trips, or park days.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37680986116776|Classical Academy|6|The Classical Academy will continue to focus on school connectedness and safety through our PBIS program and school counselors all of which are supported through our LCAP. The Classical Academy measures school climate of students and their perception on programs, events, and activities. Results from the student survey are compiled and shared with the community and local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. Overall parents, students and staff believe The Classical Academy does a good job at supporting students. Students share they feel connected and safe at school.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
37681060111195|Classical Academy High|6|Classical Academy High School will continue to focus on school connectedness and safety through our PBIS program and school counselors all of which are supported through our LCAP. Classical Academy High School measures school climate of students and their perception on programs, events, and activities. Results from the student survey are compiled and shared with the community and local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. Overall parents, students and staff believe Classical Academy High School does a good job at supporting students. Students share they feel connected and safe at school.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
37103710138404|Classical Academy Vista|6|Classical Academy, Vista will continue to focus on school connectedness and safety through our PBIS program and school counselors all of which are supported through our LCAP. Classical Academy, Vista measures school climate of students and their perception on programs, events, and activities. Results from the student survey are compiled and shared with the community and local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. Overall parents, students and staff believe Classical Academy, Vista does a good job at supporting students. Students share they feel connected and safe at school.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
10621090000000|Clay Joint Elementary|6|1. Grades 5 and 7 were chosen for the most recent survey. 59% of the 5th-grade students felt School Connectedness which did not meet our goal of 67% and 50% of the 7th-grade students did not meet the 90% goals of feeling School Connectedness. In grade 5, 100% of the students and in grade 7, 72% of the student participants felt safe at school. This exceeds the 5th-grade goal of 90% and does not meet the 7th-grade goal of 90%.  2. (Meaning) The results are difficult to analyze with only 17/30 fifth grade students granted permission to participate and 18/30 granted permission to participate by their parents. When nearly half of the student population is not allowed to participate in a survey, the school/district cannot accurately report the real 'climate' of its student body based on the survey results alone.  3. (Use) The data was reported to our parent advisory groups and to the faculty to collaboratively work on increasing student participation rate. Parents communicate they do not agree with questions about substance use and student health largely due to the topics themselves. They do not feel the questions are even necessary. Faculty are working to increase student involvement in the students' Clay experience with more leadership in Student Council, greater voice in class and behavioral/emotional support from all and specifically from our Learning Center model where students can receive academic and behavioral support as needed by the students or requested by the staff for students.|2019-10-01|The climate at Clay is one that is calm and collaborative amongst students as well as adults. PBIS is maintained and practiced/celebrated on a daily basis through the PAWS; Practice responsibility, Act respectfully, make Wise choices and be Safe. With the assistance of the Learning Center as an alternative to an office referral, we have been able to provide alternatives to suspension by adding additional supports. This is providing a deeper relationship connection that our most needy kids require in order to be successful. It is clear based on the needs and concerns of the parents that we need to change our questions so that they are acceptable to the families so that we increase our participation in our surveys to get more accurate results. With more accurate results, we can make appropriate changes to better meet the need of all students.|Met|2019
07100740731380|Clayton Valley Charter High|6|School Climate-Met In 2018-2019, CVCHS administered a School Climate Survey to all students that measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  90% of students reported that "At my school there’s a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me” 88% of students reported “I feel safe in my school” School climate at CVCHS is measured in numerous ways.  Our yearly waitlist of over 500 students who wish to attend Clayton Valley Charter is a testament to the strong programming and incredible community that exists at our school.  Our 97%-plus graduation rate and college-acceptance rate illustrates a positive, college-going culture.  Our comprehensive intervention services ensure that every student is given multiple opportunities to be successful in all of their academic courses.  We have a strong character-education program that is delivered to all students across grade levels to promote positive behavior and good choices.  We have an active athletic and extracurricular program that includes an array of different ways for students to become involved on campus.|2019-10-09|CVCHS administered a School Climate Survey to all students that measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  90% of students reported that "At my school there’s a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me” 88% of students reported “I feel safe in my school” School climate at CVCHS is measured in numerous ways.  Our yearly waitlist of over 500 students who wish to attend Clayton Valley Charter is a testament to the strong programming and incredible community that exists at our school.  Our 97%-plus graduation rate and college-acceptance rate illustrates a positive, college-going culture.  Our comprehensive intervention services ensure that every student is given multiple opportunities to be successful in all of their academic courses.  We have a strong character-education program that is delivered to all students across grade levels to promote positive behavior and good choices.  We have an active athletic and extracurricular program that includes an array of different ways for students to become involved on campus.|Met|2019
29663240000000|Clear Creek Elementary|6|The annual CHKS was administered to students in 7th grade, parents, and staff in December 2018.  The annual LCAP survey was conducted in January 2019, and reached all staff members, parents, and students in grades TK-8.  Results were shared with staff, the Site Council and School Board and made available to all other parties upon request.  The results of the survey were very positive.  More than 90% of students, staff, and parents felt that Clear Creek provided a safe environment to teach/learn in.  Data also showed a very high rating between the connection between home and school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647250131938|Clear Passage Educational Center|6|Clear Passage Educational Center's school safety survey was administered to students in grades 9-12.   Demographic Information of participating students: Ethnicity/nationality Asian - 10% African American - 21% Filipino - 2% Latino - 61% White - 4%  Gender/Age Mix Female - 41% Male - 59% Ages range from 14 - 20  English Proficiency English Language Learners - 27%  Special Populations: Special Needs Students: 10% English Language Learners: 27%  Findings: A strong majority of students enjoy school more since attending CPEC (92%). A strong majority of students attend school more regularly since attending CPEC (87%). A strong majority of students agree that school rules are clear, fair, and consistent (91%). A strong majority of students agree that school staff show respect and a caring attitude toward students (93%). A strong majority of students agree that staff are always willing and available to provide school, career, and personal problem support (88%). A strong majority of students agree that the school is a safe place to learn (97%). A strong majority of students have a very positive attitude toward independent study (93%).  Summary data from the school survey is consistently reviewed and analyzed. Survey findings are used to: Develop and facilitate safety net strategies for addressing the needs of the school’s high risk population. Review and adjust CPEC’s curriculum and instructional practices. Develop and facilitate the school’s college and career readiness programs.  Promote program improvement and strengthen the facilitation of key touch points that include student performance information meetings, student success team meetings and parent/student conferences.|2019-06-30||Met|2019
19647330129825|Clemente Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
49706560000000|Cloverdale Unified|6|Jefferson Elementary surveyed 101 fourth grade students, 68 of which were boys and 33 were girls. Washington Middle school surveyed 79 eighth grade students, 36 of which were boys and 43 were girls. Cloverdale High School surveyed 59 eleventh grade students, 28 of which were boys and 27 were girls, with four preferring to not identify their gender. With regards to the school climate questions, students could mark one of the following: Totally True, Mostly True, Somewhat, Mostly Untrue, and Totally Untrue. When compiling data, Totally and Mostly True were combined. 88% of students at Jefferson indicated that they felt safe at school. For both physical and emotional safety in the classroom, 89% of Washington students reported that they felt safe. Outside of class, 85% of students reported feeling physically safe while 78% reported feeling emotionally safe. 85% of Cloverdale High students reported that they felt physically safe in the classroom, while 61% felt emotionally safe. Outside of class, 83% of students reported feeling physically safe while 76% reported feeling emotionally safe. Jefferson reported 75% had a sense of belonging at school, while Washington reported 77% of students felt this way, and Cloverdale High had 64%. Jefferson shared that 56% of students felt that other students treated them with respect. 28% of Jefferson students marked “Somewhat” when reporting on students treating them with respect. 16% identified other students as not treating them with respect. Washington had 80% of its students report that other students treated them with respect. The high school reported that 41% felt that other students treated them with respect, 36% of high school students marked “Somewhat” when reporting on students treating them with respect. 22% identified other students as not treating them with respect.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
10621170118018|Clovis Online Charter|6|Clovis Online administers a local climate survey every year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness, to students in all grade levels that we serve (7th-12th grades), and reports the results to our local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting of the local governing board and to stakeholders and the public through the California School Dashboard.  Sample of results from the Spring 2019 Survey 93% of parents strongly agreed or agreed to the statement: This school provides a quality education that promotes academic success for my child. 97% of parents strongly agreed or agreed to the statement:  Parents feel welcome to participate at this school. 97% of parents strongly agreed or agreed to the statement: School personnel and site safety procedures are in place to maintain a safe and secure school environment for my child. 93% of parents strongly agreed or agreed to the statement: This school communicates the importance of respecting all cultural beliefs and practices.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
10621170000000|Clovis Unified|6|The Clovis Unified School District (CUSD) Student Survey was given to students in grades 4 through 11 and was designed to help CUSD understand student experiences and perceptions of the school environment. Two of the questions on the survey were designed to specifically understand student connectedness through participation in co-curricular activities and asked the students to indicate how strongly they agree with the statement of “My school is a safe place for learning.” When looking at being connected to the school through participating in at least one district provided co-curricular activity: 81% of students in grades 4-6 indicated they participate. Percentages of co-curricular participation by student groups are: 86% white, 72% American Indian or Alaska Native, 74% Asian, 82% African American, 85% Hispanic, 84% Two or more races, 74% EL, and 81% of SED. 70% of students in grades 7-8 indicated they participate. Percentages of co-curricular participation by student groups are: 77% white, 64% American Indian or Alaska Native, 64% Asian, 78% African American, 66% Hispanic, 74% Two or more races, 57% EL, and 61% of SED. 75% of students in grades 9-11 indicated they participate. Percentages of co-curricular participation by student groups are: 78% white, 76% American Indian or Alaska Native, 79% Asian, 78% African American, 69% Hispanic, 76% Two or more races, 64% EL, and 70% of SED. When indicating how strongly they agree with the statement “My school is a safe place for learning”: 94% of students in grades 4-6 agree or strongly agree. Percentages by student groups are: 95% white, 95% American Indian or Alaska Native, 94% Asian, 94% African American, 95% Hispanic, 93% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, 94% Two or more races, 92% EL, and 94% of SED. 81% of students in grades 7-8 agree or strongly agree. Percentages by student groups are: 83% white, 81% American Indian or Alaska Native, 83% Asian, 75% African American, 84% Hispanic, 80% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, 81% Two or more races, 84% EL, and 82% of SED. 72% of students in grades 9-11 agree or strongly agree. Percentages by student groups are: 75% white, 70% American Indian or Alaska Native, 72% Asian, 60% African American, 76% Hispanic, 63% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, 71% Two or more races, 70% EL, and 72% of SED. A key learning from this student reported data is that there is a discrepancy of student groups and feeling safe at school. This is true for most subgroups buts most notably African American High School. Clovis Unified has been actively reaching out to our community and revising our self-monitoring program as well as the supports it monitors to ensure all students feel connected and safe at school.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
33736760000000|Coachella Valley Unified|6|In nearly all grade levels and indicators, the results of the 2018-19 CHKS show that goals were met or exceeded; exceptions were School Connectedness for 9 & 11 grade, Meaningful Participation (grades 7, 9, and 11), and School Perceived as Safe (grades 5, 7, 9, and 11).  Results for Academic Motivation and Facilities Upkeep exceeded our goals by a substantial amount.   In response to the data that 53% of fifth graders, 34% of seventh graders, 36% of 9th graders, and 32% of 11th graders report that they agree/strongly agree they have had mean rumors or lies spread about them and 32% of 7th graders, 37% of 9th graders, and 35% of 11th graders strongly agreeing that they have experienced Chronic Sadness or Hopelessness - CVUSD has dedicated resources in our LCAP to continue the work of transformational learning, restorative practices, and PBIS, as well as providing one-site social-emotional counseling. CVUSD is working with sites to develop and implement a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS): an integrated, comprehensive framework to align academic, behavioral, and social-emotional learning in a fully integrated system of support.  Results of the Panorama School Climate survey: In student perception of school, out of the elementary students that took the survey 76% of the students responded favorably for the areas of climate of support for academic learning and  sense of belonging (school connectedness). 85% of the students reported favorably to knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules and norms. However, only 59% of the students responded favorably to safety.   For secondary schools, 74% of the students responded favorably to climate of support for academic learning and knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules and norms.  Nonetheless, sense of belonging (school connectedness) is significantly lower than elementary with 63% of students responding favorably.  Safety is also a concern in secondary based on the 57% of students who responded favorably to feeling safe at school.   Perception of self is a significant area that  measures student’s perception of their own social-emotional skill. In Elementary, 73% of students responded favorably to having a growth mindset, 69% & 67% to social awareness and self management respectively, but only 65% responded favorably to self-efficacy. Secondary results were lower than elementary with 66% growth mindset, 62% in self management and social awareness, and 52% in self-efficacy. Although significantly lower scores, the trend seems to be the same.  589 teachers participated in the survey; 59% of teachers who responded to the survey have been teaching for over 10 years. 86% of the teachers responded favorably to climate of support for academic learning, 76% and 73% of teachers reported favorably to knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules and norms, and sense of belonging (school connectedness). However,  only 68% of the teachers responded favorably to safety. The trend is similar to students.|2019-10-17|Coachella Valley Unified School District (CVUSD) continued to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2019 and piloted the Panorama School Climate Survey to collect valid and reliable feedback around school climate and culture, engagement and social emotional learning. Results were used to measure the district’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate.   This year was our pilot year with Panorama, therefore we surveyed students in the expanded learning programs after school; 188 elementary students in grades 3-6 and 441 responses in all secondary grades, 7-12. We attempted to survey all of our teachers and families.|Met|2019
10621250000000|Coalinga-Huron Unified|6|The district is committed to ensuring a safe and conducive learning environment for all students. Specific actions have been taken by the district to address issues related to student safety, to include but not limited to, increasing professional development for staff as it relates to crisis preparedness and implementation of social emotional learning programs at the elementary level.  In the Spring of 2019, the CHUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5 through 12.  The following analysis of the CHKS is limited to portions of the survey relevant to student perception of school safety and connectedness. At the elementary level, seventy percent of all 5th graders surveyed indicated feeling safe at school. Further analysis by school of origin revealed, a slightly higher rate for Sunset Elementary when compared to Huron Elementary (72% - Sunset; 61% - Huron).  In terms of school engagement and supports, the results also indicated a slightly higher rate for Sunset Elementary when compared to Huron Elementary (65% - Sunset; 57% - Huron).  Overall, 64% of fifth grade students surveyed indicated high levels of connectedness.  Middle School Analysis of survey data by school of origin indicated higher rates of students feeling safe at school for HMS when compared to CMS (67% - HMS; 41% - CMS).  In terms of engagement, the results also indicated a higher rate of students feeling connected for HMS when compared to CMS (60% - HMS; 45% - CMS). A key finding from the survey was that 5th graders consistently rated/ranked higher in the areas of School Engagement and Supports and School Safety in comparison to their secondary counterparts.  Seventy percent of fifth graders, 53% of 7th graders, 57% of 9th graders, and 53% of 11th grades perceive school as very safe or safe according to the survey results. Approximately 51% of middle school students surveyed rate high or moderate level of school connectedness. In the area of school safety, a majority of high school students surveyed responded that they perceive school to be very safe or safe. Further analysis by grade at the secondary level revealed an even distribution across all grade levels therefore no significant disparity between grade levels was found. However, it is important to note that the data suggests a significant decline in school connectedness from elementary school to high school since the feeling of school connectedness dropped from 70% at the 5th grade level to 53% feeling connected at school by the 11th grade.|2019-01-15||Met|2019
40754650000000|Coast Unified|6|Coast Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every two years to students in grades seven, nine and eleven. Survey results are shared with members of the School Board and are included in the district LCAP. Below is a summary of the survey results:  California Healthy Kids Survey Results:  *School connectedness  2015/16   7th grade: 64%    9th grade: 43%   11th grade 36%  2017/18   7th grade: 53%    9th grade: 49%   11th grade 33%  *School perceived as safe or very safe  2015/16   7th grade: 80%    9th grade: 55%    11th grade 57%  2017/18   7th grade: 56%    9th grade: 58%    11th grade 48%  *Current alcohol or drug use  2015/16   7th grade: 14%    9th grade: 33%    11th grade 42% 2017/18   7th grade: 0%      9th grade: 8%      11th grade 27%|2019-10-10|In examining the results of the survey, efforts to focus on school connectedness, school safety and substance use/abuse will continue. Coast did see an increase in safety concerns, however, we believe that publicized events related to school safety may have had an impact on the perceived safety of our campuses.|Met|2019
37735690136267|Coastal Academy Charter|6|Coastal Academy will continue to focus on school connectedness and safety through our PBIS program and school counselors all of which are supported through our LCAP. Coastal Academy measures school climate of students and their perception on programs, events, and activities. Results from the student survey are compiled and shared with the community and local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. Overall parents, students and staff believe Coastal Academy does a good job at supporting students. Students share they feel connected and safe at school.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
12626796120562|Coastal Grove Charter|6|Our annual survey asks questions about school safety, school connectedness, student belonging, the classroom environment being conducive to and supportive of learning and student access to support services like counseling, nurses, peer mediators, educational support, buddies, and cross-class collaboration.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
53716700000000|Coffee Creek Elementary|6|Utilizing data from the K-5 student survey students felt safe on campus.  The school follows monthly safety drills to help students practice safety procedures.  Teachers and staff communicate with students n the importance of following rules and procedures during emergency situations.  The LEA will continue to work with the local fire department in reviewing our safety plan and providing input into the decision making process in order to help improve our school safety plan.  Parents will be notified of any changes to the plan to help eliminate confusion in the future.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
42691610000000|Cold Spring Elementary|6|The Cold Spring School District is focused on creating a positive school culture and climate.  This includes creating an environment where students feel safe, nurtured and connected to their community.  The District measures its success in this area through a student survey of its fifth and sixth grade students.  The survey is paired with a survey of all parents, staff and community members.  The results of the survey indicate that the student environment is conducive to effective learning.  Over 96% of the students felt connected to their school environment.  This same subgroup also felt that school safety was a priority for teachers and staff.  The culture and climate of the school is reflected most prominently in the zero suspension and expulsion rate maintained by the District over the last 4 years.   To achieve a positive school culture and climate, the District has as a priority goal (LCAP Goal 6) the connectedness of students to their teachers.   The success of the District is measured through the student survey.  Nearly 98% of students responded that they felt very connected to their teacher and District staff.  The informal qualitative data reflects the students feel teachers and staff truly care about their success in the academic programs offered by the school.  The survey results reflect the importance administration, teachers and staff place on ensuring students feel valued in the classroom and school.  The survey results also indicate the majority of students place high value on Art, Music, PE, STEAM and Technology.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19647336016562|Colfax Charter Elementary|6|Colfax Charter administered the LAUSD 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 4th and 5th graders.  The participation rate for this survey was 98%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the % of students indicating Yes, Always / Strongly Agree are noted next to the question.  Are you happy to be at this school? 89% Do you feel like you are part of this school? 81% Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 86% Do you feel safe at this school?  90%  The data shows that overall students are happy to be at school.  We will continue to look at this data in comparison to make plans for school safety, school connectedness, and acceptance.   Our School Wide Positive Behavior Intervention and Support Team will use this data to determine assemblies and new initiatives as needed.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
31667950000000|Colfax Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
30741120000000|College and Career Advantage|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
30103060132910|College and Career Preparatory Academy|6|As the College and Career Preparatory Academy services students ages 18-25, the California Healthy Kids Survey is not administered to our students. However, CCPA administers a student survey for input in establishing and meeting priorities within the LCAP.  These results are communicated to school administrators and this data is used to evaluate student support services at the school sites.  This analysis has resulted in increased student services, technology availability, and expansion of collaboration with community partners, which allows students more pathways to careers.  The survey resulted in these key findings:   ? Ninety-five percent of CCPA students surveyed felt the school was preparing them for college and/or career pathways, which reflects an increase of 3% from the previous year.  ? Ninety-nine percent of CCPA students surveyed felt that the school staff works with them to help them do their best, which is consistent with last year’s survey results.  ? Ninety-eight percent of CCPA students surveyed felt safe at school, which reflects an increase of 3% from the previous year.  ? Ninety-seven percent of CCPA students surveyed felt that their school is clean, safe, and in good condition, which is consistent with last year’s survey results.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
14101400128454|College Bridge Academy|6|Our school was happy to learn from the survey that many of our students feel safe at school despite the fact that our schools are located in neighborhoods riddled with crime and socioeconomic distress. We work very hard at creating a safe haven for our students at our schools and the school climate survey results support that effort. We also frequently tout our small class sizes and family environment as the secret to our success with our students. We were pleased to see that results surrounding student support, encouragement, and positive relationships also showed positively on our climate survey. Most students responded that there are a lot of chances to get one on one support from a teacher or administrator. Additionally, almost all students responded that they have a good relationship with at least one teacher or administrator at our school. Lastly, almost all students responded that they get a lot of encouragement from the school and that they feel like their teachers care about them.  For the last few years we have worked to implement a schoolwide positive behavioral skill building program. Last year we focused on it as one of our two main schoolwide goals. Survey results showed an improvement from previous years in the consistency of these skills being talked about but it is still not where we want it to be. The results of the climate survey show that our skill based discipline model is being inconsistently implemented. This is something we observed in our own school and classroom walkthroughs but the survey results validate those observations. Some of the areas in particular that we would like to see better results this upcoming school year are: "teachers take time during the school day to teach us social skills," "I see rules about student behavior posted in classrooms and other areas of the school", "students can get away with misbehavior with some teachers more than with others", and "teachers clearly communicate their expectations about behavior to me and my classmates". These are areas where we will focus our training this school year.|2019-09-13|We are very encouraged to report that bullying was described as a rare occurrence by all students. Although we would love if respondents reported 100% that bullying never occurred we only had 4% of students report that they witnessed bullying or harassment at our schools. This is very important to us and substantiates the findings of why students feel safe at our schools.|Met|2019
42691790000000|College Elementary|6|The CHKS survey was administered to grades 5,7 by the LEA during the spring of 2017.  Two questions that were of particular import to the LEA in evaluating priority 6 were: 1. The questions relating to school connectedness.  These questions differ slightly at each grade level, but they measure students' sense of connectedness to the school.  66.0% of students say they feel connected with their school.  2. The questions relating to school safety.  These questions measure whether students feel safe at school.  76.5% of students say they feel safe at school.|2019-06-11||Met|2019
37771640137356|College Preparatory Middle|6|Results of Spring 2019 7th grade Student Survey:  92% feel they are learning good study habits/skills at CPMS. 80% felt that teachers provide extra help in a subject when they need it. 80% felt there was an adult on campus they could speak with. 89% say that the adults on campus encourage them to work hard and do their best. 96% say they know their areas of academic strength and weakness. 85% say they utilize the student resources provided to check their grades and progress. 96% say they plan to attend college. At CPMS we continue to develop programs to help more students to connect to the school in a positive way. This year as we have increased in size, we look to our students to help us to develop new ways to promote student engagement and connection. Our active ASB is looking to enhance their student activities. As of this writing we are looking to leverage our community resources to develop clubs, and provide student support groups to help students to build self esteem, teamwork and self expression.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37682130121582|College Preparatory Middle - East County|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330131821|Collegiate Charter High School of Los Angeles|6|The school administered a school climate survey last school year as we do every year. The results were exciting: Student satisfaction was much stronger in 2018-19 than it was in 2017-18. We looked more deeply and noticed that, on the whole, students appreciate changes we made to school policies and to our social emotional learning programming. In 2018-19 we made a deliberate shift away from consequence-based discipline and rolled out a comprehensive school-wide restorative justice-based social emotional learning program grounded in metacognitive skill-building. This work is led by the school's principal and dean of school culture and is supported and championed by all staff. It led to a 94% reduction in classroom removals and decline to 1.7% in suspension rate last year.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
36676860000000|Colton Joint Unified|6|CJUSD administers the PBIS School Climate Survey to students in grades 3-12.  The survey is part of PBIS Assessment, which is part of the SWIS Suite. The survey measures student perception of school climate. Examples of questions include, but are not limited to: I like school, Teachers treat me with respect, I feel safe at school, Students treat each other well etc. The mean scores are from 1 (lowest) to 4 (highest).   Elementary Schools:  Overall mean score = 3.16  Overall for Hispanic Students =3.17 , Black/African American Students = 3.13 , White Students=3.17 .  Sample overall scores- Elementary – Q5- Teachers treat me with respect: 3.57, Q8- I feel safe at school: 3.18, Q10- There is an adult at school that I can talk to if I need help: 3.44   Middle Schools:  :  Overall mean score = 2.93  Overall for Hispanic Students =2.97, Black/African American Students=2.78, White Students=2.93.  Sample overall scores- Secondary– Q5- Teachers treat me with respect: 3.22, Q8- I feel safe at school: 2.80, Q9- There is an adult at school that I can talk to if I need help: 3.05   Comprehensive High Schools:  :  Overall mean score = 2.80  Overall for Hispanic Students =2.82, Black/African American Students=2.76, White Students=2.80.  Sample overall scores- Secondary– Q5- Teachers treat me with respect: 3.18, Q8- I feel safe at school: 2.66, Q9- There is an adult at school that I can talk to if I need help: 2.76   Alt Ed Schools:  :  Overall mean score = 2.97  Overall for Hispanic Students =3.0, Black/African American Students= 3.19, White Students=2.76.  Sample overall scores- Secondary– Q5- Teachers treat me with respect: 3.36, Q8- I feel safe at school: 2.91, Q9- There is an adult at school that I can talk to if I need help: 3.21|2019-10-17|The Fall 2018 scores on the PBIS School Climate Survey have gone up slightly as compared to the prior school year scores. CJUSD will continue to focus on creating a climate where students feel safe at school- specifically at the secondary school sites.  Elementary school sites' data show that students have a higher perception of positive school climate in all areas than do secondary students. The data also shows that the perception of school climate as positive declines from elementary to middle and declines further from middle to high school.  Secondary school sites need to focus on improving Tier 1 PBIS practices related to school climate (revisit expectations, 5:1 positive to negative feedback, recognizing and reinforcing expected behaviors, and addressing students who are not responding to Tier 1.  Data for CJUSD comprehensive high schools show an area of concern when it comes to positive school climate.  Higher scores were seen by all students in the area of "Teachers treat me with respect."   Comprehensive school sites will continue to work on student perception regarding "There is an adult at school that I can talk to if I need help" as those scores are not at a "3" which is our goal.|Met|2019
45699480000000|Columbia Elementary|6|1. DATA: We learned there was a need for a counselor.  There were concerns with the dress code. The students would like a clear understanding of the bullying policy. 2. MEANING: Strengths include a strong academic program, good relationships with staff. Concerns: Access to a Broad Course of Study like World Languages and more opportunities for Career Education. Students are concerned about Social Emotional Support. Teachers indicated they were concerned about about Social Emotional needs of students.  Barriers: Small school district with limited funding. We have difficulty recruiting World Language staff and the costs are too prohibitive to partner with the High School. 3. USE: We expanded our middle school counselors from 40% to 80%. We have maintained an Asst Principal and an elementary counselor. We annually review, revise, update our student dress code.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
55723480000000|Columbia Union|6|We administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to our 7th grade students in 2018-19. We also administer a yearly school climate survey. The highlights of the latter are listed below.  67% feel safe at school. 30% feel that students treat each other well at school. 69% feel that they have learned something about their behavior or emotions this year.. 81% feel that the school has clear rules. 84% feel that adults at school want them to do well.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
54718520000000|Columbine Elementary|6|Columbine School is safe and the students feel connected to the school according to the Healthy Kids Survey. This priority has been met. 0% of the 7th graders think that the school is unsafe. 87% feel the school is either very safe or safe. 14% state that the school is neither unsafe or safe. 100% of the class is connected to the school. 68% are highly connected and 32% moderately connected. None of the group considers themselves lowly connected to Columbine. 5th graders rated the school safe 73% either all or most of the time. The remaining 27% said they are safe some of the time. None of the pupils never feel safe at school. 55% of the 5th graders have a high connectedness to Columbine. 45% have a moderate connection with Columbine. 100% of the 5th have a connection with the school. These statistics and viewing our campus and classrooms show that Columbine is safe and the students are connected.|2019-10-28|Columbine had no suspensions or expulsions for 2018/19.|Met|2019
06100660000000|Colusa County Office of Education|6|Overall, survey results suggested that staff excelled at supporting students and catching them up academically.  They also indicated a greater need to boost motivation and provide information, which promotes colleges and trade schools.  The greatest need identified by students was in promoting respect for adults and respect between adults and students on campus. We utilized the College Readiness Block Grant to include field trip options, encourage a college-going culture and highlight career possibilities. We also continued to encourage students to participate in classes at our adjacent community college. Our second response was to implement a multi tiered system of support to promote student social and emotional learning and foster a culture of respect which did not achieve the desired outcomes for students as measured by post surveys.|2019-06-19||Met|2019
06615980000000|Colusa Unified|6|The classrooms at my school are clean and well maintained (FIT Results). Burchfield 100% Egling   100% CHS/CAHS 100%   I have access to the internet and email often. BPS  90.5% EMS  100% CHS/CAHS 98% I feel welcomed and comfortable at school. BPS  96% EMS  92.5% CHS/CAHS  96.5%  Discipline at school is fair and consistent.  BPS  90%   EMS  78.5% CHS/CAHS  88%   My teachers set high standards for my student.  BPS  93% EMS  91% CHS/CAHS 92%   School is a safe place for my student.  BPS  98% EMS  91.5% CHS/CAHS 94%  The facilities at school are well maintained.  BPS  90.5% EMS  94% CHS/CAHS 87%  Communication from school is frequent and high quality.  BPS  90% EMS  95.5% CHS/CAHS 86%     At school, I can obtain clear and timely information regarding my child’s academic growth.  BPS  93% EMS  87% CHS/CAHS 86%  As a parent of a student, I am satisfied with the number of extracurricular activities provided by the school.  BPS  90% EMS  78.5% CHS/CAHS 78%      Parents have many opportunities to participate in school events.  BPS  92% EMS  82% CHS/CAHS 72%   I am satisfied with the communication between school, myself and home.  BPS  94.5% EMS  90% CHS/CAHS 88%  At school, the grading policies are clearly explained.  BPS  88% EMS  86% CHS/CAHS 90%   School climate survey results show that students feel safe, cared about, and engaged.  Results support our continued efforts to make students feel welcome, safe, cared about, and engaged in school with goals and purpose.  An area we continue to address is bullying, by educating students, correcting behaviors, and supporting students who feel bullied.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
04100410134213|Come Back Butte Charter|6|BCOE schools use a research based PBIS School Climate student survey. The data is based on a four-point rubric.  The goal for all BCOE schools is to maintain an average overall climate survey rating of at least 85%. Winter 18-19 Overall scores by school:  Come Back: 88% (+/-0) BCCS elementary: 87% (+7%) BCCS middle/ high school: 69% (-4%) Hearthstone elementary: 83% (+1%) Hearthstone middle/high: 77% (+/-0%) Special Ed elementary: No student responses Special Ed middle/ high school: 70% (-8%) Table Mountain School: 87% (+1%) The LEA and school administrative teams meet monthly and conduct PLC meetings to review data and identify next steps. In addition, the administrative team conducted a root cause analysis and determined sites need to work on increasing student engagement. The LEA is supporting this work by providing student centered coaches, push in professional learning opportunities, and using staff to create a system of instruction for students in the county office run programs that is standards aligned, based on student self-interest and provides an option for community connections/ engagement.   Sites are formatively assessing climate status throughout the year with empathy interviews or other quick measures of student views on the school climate.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
24102490138032|Come Back Charter|6|CBCS administered a school climate student survey in the fall of 2019. The survey provides a measure of student perceptions of school climate in regards to safety, connectedness, and academic motivation and opportunities.   DATA: Overall, 89% of the responses positively rated the school in a variety of areas related to school climate. The highest positive ratings were identified in the areas of being prepared for college and the world of work is important to students (98%), teachers treating students fairly (95%), and the school’s promotion of academic success for all students (93%). Additional areas rated very positive included students work hard to understand new things at school (90%), student perceptions of feeling safe on campus (88%), students feeling motivated to learn while at school (88%), and students feeling like they are part of the school (85%). The lowest positive rating was identified at 73% in the area of classes that are challenging and interesting to students.  MEANING/USE: Analysis of the data demonstrate that students will continue to benefit from positive interactions with the staff and the continual promotion of academic success for all students. College and career preparation is still important and providing students opportunities to set goals, plan, and develop career and life skills are essential. CBCS plans to increase opportunities for students to become involved both on and off campus and to provide students more opportunities to work collaboratively. More professional development opportunities will be provided to teachers to better support the learning of adult students.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
33103300128397|Come Back Kids|6|CBK utilized the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2018-2019 as a new instrument to measure school connectedness and school safety. The CBK total reported as moderate (26%) and high (70%) on the 2018-­2019 CHKS on School Connectedness was 95%. The CBK total percent of students responding that they felt very safe or safe was 84% in 2018­-2019. The CHKS (WestEd) is a reliable and valid instrument.|2019-10-01|CBK administered the California Healthy Kids Survey on school connectedness and school safety.|Met|2019
19753090132654|Community Collaborative Charter|6|Data: Parent Participation:  With students in student groups: English Learner (EL) 33%, Low Socioeconomic (LI) 26%, Student with Disability (SWD) 19%,  N/A 22%  Parent Participant Ethnicity: White 37%, Hispanic/Latino 33%, Two or More 11%, African American 15%, Declined to State 4%  Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rating of our school. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and the school's building partnerships with parents. Use:  Collaborate on strategies to invite and encourage participation of all parent groups.   Data:  Overall % in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of Students 98% Positive School Climate and Connectedness 99% Establishing Connections and Partnerships 99% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 100% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 100% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 100% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rate with the school program. 98% Improving the academic achievement of students based on my student sets personal academic achievement goals and works independently to achieve those goals in a timely manner.  Use:  Teacher collaboration on evidence-based strategies to teach independent study skills and the setting of goals and achieving them.  Data:  Student Participants:  English Learners 27.30%, Student w/ Disability 15.20%, Low Socio-econ 12.10%, N/A 60%  88% of the students surveyed feel that their teacher is available to speak with them to provide support and guidance with school work 94% of the students surveyed feel that the curriculum provides challenging grade level instruction and assessment of their academic progress 82% of the students surveyed feel that the curriculum and instruction are engaging and they are able to complete their coursework on time. 97% of the students surveyed feel that their teacher cares about their education and is committed to helping them succeed 100% of the students surveyed feel safe and welcome to meet with their teacher to discuss their progress 91% of the students surveyed feel satisfied with their school 94% of the students surveyed feel that the school does a great job communicating with them 88% of the students surveyed feel that there is additional support for their academic or developmental needs 94% of the students surveyed feel that if they have a problem, there is someone at school they can talk to Meaning: Overall strength in satisfaction with the school program. Staff collaboration on strategies for providing student support and teaching student goal setting and independent study skills. Use: Continue the teacher collaboration and training of evidence based communication strategies and teaching independent learning and goal setting skills to support student success; and, improve the overall satisfaction with the school educational program.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
34765050108837|Community Collaborative Charter|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive collaborative culture where shared-decision making is practiced and Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19646420136127|Community Collaborative Virtual - Keppel Partnership Academy|6|Data:  Parent Participants with students in student groups:  EL 30%, Low Socio-economic 30%,  N/A 40% White 66.7%,  Two or More Races 19.1%, Hispanic/Latino 16.7%, Pacific Islander 16.7% Student Participants: EL 66%, Low Socio-Economic 33%  Overall % in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of ALL Students 95% Positive School Climate 100% Establishing Connections 95.75% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 100% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 100% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 100% Meaning: Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and the school's building partnerships with parents and students. Overall, there is a high satisfaction rate with the school program. Improve the perception of the school and teacher valuing the student’s background, culture, and diversity.  Use: Collaboration with teachers at staff meetings on strategies for demonstrating culture appreciation. Professional development on Cultural Awareness and Appreciation.   Data:  Positive School Climate Student Survey Results Overall % in agreement with: School's High Expectations for Student Performance 100% School Safety 100% Respectful School Climate 100% Caring Adults at School that Support Students 88% Social and Emotional Learning 92% Meaning: Strength in overall satisfaction with Positive School Climate. Improve student perception of caring adults at school through training on effective communication skills, monitoring student progress and follow-up. Use: Teacher collaboration and training on researched based strategies for effective teacher/student communication.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
36677360136069|Community Collaborative Virtual - Sage Oak Charter|6|Data:  Parent Participants with students in student groups:  EL 12.5%, Foster Youth 2%, Student With a Disability 8.3%, Low Socioeconomic 10%, N/A 70.8% Ethnicity: White 49.2%,  Hispanic/Latino 20%, African American 1.7%, Asian 6%, Pacific Islander .8%,  Declined to State 2.5% .  Overall % Parent in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of Students 98% Positive School Climate 98% Establishing Connections and Partnerships 98% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 99% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 98% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 98% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rating of our school. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and the school's building partnerships with parents. Use: Collaborate on strategies to invite and encourage participation of all parent groups.   Student Participants:  EL 4.3%, Students with a Disability 8.7%, Foster Youth 4.3%, Low Socio-Economic 10%, N/A 81.3% Overall % students in agreement with:  My teacher is available to speak with me when I need guidance and support 100% The curriculum provides challenging grade level instruction and assessment 100% The curriculum and instruction are engaging and I complete my work on time 100% My teacher cares about my education and is committed to helping me succeed 100% I feel safe and welcome to meet with my teacher to discuss my progress 100% Overall, I feel satisfied with my school 100% Overall, I feel satisfied that the school does a great job communicating with me 100% There is additional support for my academic or developmental needs 100% If I have a problem, I know I have someone at school that I can talk to 100% Meaning: Overall high student satisfaction with the school program. Use: Continue to collaborate on all areas to maintain and continue student perception of the CCVS-Sage Oak Charter School academic program.  Positive School Climate Student Survey Results Data:  Student Participants:  EL 20%, Students with a Disability 60%, Low-Socioeconomic 10% Overall % in agreement with: School's High Expectations for Student Performance 100% School Safety 100% Respectful School Climate 100% Caring Adults at School that Support Students 98% Social and Emotional Learning 100% Meaning: Strength in overall student satisfaction with the positive school climate.  Use: Teacher collaboration on strategies and skills in effective communication during teacher/student meetings and monitoring student work with follow-up on students not completing their work with check-in calls and emails.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647336094726|Community Magnet Charter Elementary|6|LAUSD administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate for Community Magnet Charter School:  • School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 95%. • The percentage rates of students reporting being happy at school was 93%. 88% also reported          feeling they were a part of their school. • CMCS was perceived to be a safe place by 90% of students. • When students were asked if adults treated them with respect, 80% of CMCS students replied in the          affirmative.|2019-11-04||Met|2019
37103710137695|Community Montessori|6|Community Montessori School annually measures the school climate of students and their perception on programs, events, and activities. Results from the student survey are compiled and shared with all stakeholders including the local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. Communication has consistently been raised as an area for growth, thus the school has implemented the use of Parent Square to establish direct communication with parents, instead of expecting staff to forward information along in a timely manner. Additionally, the school opened up a parent portal on the website to give parents access to school documents (handbooks, logs, sample curriculum, etc.).|2019-10-30||Met|2019
34765050101766|Community Outreach Academy|6|A survey is administered to parents annually to seek input on school culture and climate. Parents indicated they feel comfortable approaching teachers and administrators with concerns or questions and are highly satisfied with the foreign language and cultural aspects of the school’s program. The survey indicated that parents feel the campus is very safe and clean. They indicated that there are many opportunities for parent participation in school activities and processes and that the school does an excellent job making parents aware of the ways they can participate in the school program. The survey was a survey designed with input from Gateway Community Charters and the school around school goals related to parent participation and input. It will be reviewed annually to ensure alignment with LCAP goals.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647330129874|Community Preparatory Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
30664640123729|Community Roots Academy|6|SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 4-5 2018-19:  Student Survey Participation Rate: 52% A total of 32 grade 5 students (35% participation rate); and 21 grade 6 students (40% participation rate): • 81% of grade 5 and 6 students agreed that teachers and other grown-ups at the school care about them most/all of the time. • 65% of grade 5, 48% grade 6 students agreed that teachers and other grown-ups make an effort to get to them (students) most/all of the time.  • 91% of grade 5, 62% grade 6 students agreed they are happy to be at CRA most/all of the time.  • 80% of grade 5, 58% grade 6 students feel like they are part of the school most/all of the time.  • 85% of grade 5, 71% grade 6 students agreed they feel safe at school most/all of the time. A total of 41 grade 7 (77% participation rate); and 33 grade 8 students (66% participation rate):  • 63% grade 7; and 66% grade 8 students agreed that teachers and other grown-ups at the school care about them most/all of the time. • 86% grade 7; and 88% grade 8 students Strongly Agree/Agree they feel close to people at school.  • 78% grade 7; and 69% grade 8 students Strong Agree/Agree they are happy to be at CRA.  • 77% grade 7; and 69% grade 8 students Strongly Agree/Agree they feel like they are part of this school.  • 81% grade 7; and 85% grade 8 students Strongly Agree/Agree they feel safe at their school.   The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the CHKS to improve and expand its Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) of schoolwide support services, communication, support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to increase student participation rates for the CHKS that will be administered in Spring 2020.|2019-09-09||Met|2019
01100170123968|Community School for Creative Education|6||||Not Met|2019
57727020139436|Compass Charter School of Yolo|6|This survey assesses in more depth issues of academic quality, respectful relationships, the relevance of virtual classroom lessons, scholar learning motivation and virtual classroom involvement. In comparison to previous years, there was 91% of families that agree that CCS is committed to the success of each scholar. Families were also asked if they agree that teachers are responsive to scholar needs, 89% agreed. There was also an overall positive program satisfaction rating from 90% of our families.  As a response to the survey results the LEA implemented organization-wide updates for continuous improvement purposes.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
10623310130880|Compass Charter Schools of Fresno|6||||Not Met|2019
19753090135145|Compass Charter Schools of Los Angeles|6|This survey assesses in more depth issues of academic quality, respectful relationships, the relevance of virtual classroom lessons, scholar learning motivation and virtual classroom involvement. In comparison to previous years, there was 91% of families that agree that CCS is committed to the success of each scholar. Families were also asked if they agree that teachers are responsive to scholar needs, 89% agreed. There was also an overall positive program satisfaction rating from 90% of our families.  As a response to the survey results the LEA implemented organization-wide updates for continuous improvement purposes.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
37682130127084|Compass Charter Schools of San Diego|6|This survey assesses in more depth issues of academic quality, respectful relationships, the relevance of virtual classroom lessons, scholar learning motivation and virtual classroom involvement. In comparison to previous years, there was 91% of families that agree that CCS is committed to the success of each scholar. Families were also asked if they agree that teachers are responsive to scholar needs, 89% agreed. There was also an overall positive program satisfaction rating from 90% of our families.  As a response to the survey results the LEA implemented organization-wide updates for continuous improvement purposes.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
36679590124032|Competitive Edge Charter Academy (CECA)|6|In the year 2017-2018 CECA students in grade 5-8 took the annual Gallup Poll.  Results in the areas of hope and engagement were analyzed. IN the area of engagement 62% of students felt engaged while 38% were either stuck or not engaged.  In the area of hope , 49% were hopeful while 51% were either stuck or discouraged.  Diving into the actual responses in the area of engagement, CECA students scored three areas lower than others: At this school I get to do what I do best everyday, I have fun at school and In the last seven days someone at school has told me I have done a good job.  Overall eighth grade students scores significantly lower on the engagement scale.  As a staff we reviewed these results and completed an activity during which we identified potential causes for scoring low in these areas.  Some root causes, according to staff, included teaching to the middle, weak questioning strategies, lack of positive reinforcement, and lack of extra curricular activities for older students.    To address these areas, we introduced the Mathematical Mindsets approach to seeing and teaching math, a highly engaging and research-based approach to teaching math through hands-on activities and big ideas; we introduced lunchtime sports and clubs that would help keep students engaged and help introduce them to new friends; we introduced a new schedule that shortneed time in electives and combined classes so that students had longer time in ELA and math, longer passing periods and an extended nutrition break; and begun a student mentor and tutoring program that would empower older students to help younger students.    In the area of hope CECA students rated the school low in the areas of I can find ways around problems and I have a mentor.  To address these areas CECA staff have added an IB period for 6-8th grade students during which we focus on approaches to learning, such as being Effective, which focuses on self-motivation and mindset.  Students participate in activities that foster collaboration and struggle through rigor.  The results have been promising.  As stated previously, mentoring through the WEB Program and tutoring training have provided the peer support many students have been lacking.  One area of growth is providing adult mentors.  Attaching adult mentors to students demonstrating struggle whether social, emotional or academic would be hugely beneficial for some of our students.  We have also provided numerous opportunities for exposure through our pro-talk sessions, which introduce students to different careers.  Continuing these opportunities and broadening the types of speakers would help keep the program alive and effective for students.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19734370000000|Compton Unified|6|CUSD provides a school connectedness surveys to students in grades 5-12 with questions related to safety, relations, instruction, and expectations. The number of surveys completed has increased significantly over time going from 2,700 in 16/17 to 8,012 in 18/19. The results of this survey help us inform our LCAP.   The 18/19 results indicate that 74% of the students who took the survey looked forward to attending school. These results were better than two years ago when only 66% of the students responded positively. In any case, over 25% of our students completing the survey showed a lack of interest in school, which is a clear indication that we must continue focusing on student engagement. Last school year, we provided multiple opportunities for students to participate in athletics (e.g. softball, basketball, Rod Dedeaux Baseball Foundation, Sloane Stephens Tennis Foundation), field trips, academic competitions (e.g. pentathlon, STEAM, robotics), and enrichment (e.g. Southern University Band Camp). We will continue providing these opportunities while we develop instructional practices that promote student collaboration, rigor, and engagement (e.g. Project-Based Learning).  On questions related to safety, 71% of the students agreed that staff at their school does a good job at keeping the school safe. Two years ago, only 45% of the students agreed that their school was a safe place. This shows a significant change in students’ perceptions about safety in their schools. A total of 76% of the students agreed that adults at their school felt the responsibility to ensure a safe/supportive learning environment; this is also significantly higher than the 69% from two years before. However, on questions related to bullying not being tolerated at school, only 48% of the students agreed. These results are concerning, and this is why CUSD is committed to continue improving the work in this area.   Over the years, CUSD has developed multiple strategies to improve school climate. In 17/18 seven schools participated in the “Year 1 PBIS Reboot” and attended numerous LACOE sponsored workshops. Eight additional schools participated last school year in the expansion of the PBIS program, and the work will continue in 19/20. The collaborative efforts between the Child Welfare and Attendance (CWA), school police, and the school sites established a partnership with Centinela Youth Services to provide weekly restorative justice practices for our students. “Be and Upstander” anti-bullying campaign was launched in October 2017 and it continues taking place every year. Schools are provided t-shirts and wristbands for students and adults, and rallies are being held district-wide. “Upstander” orange is worn on Fridays by the CWA staff to promote anti-bullying all year long. In 18/19 we launched our bullying application called “BRIM”, and piloted “My Buddy Benches” in several Elementary Schools as an intervention to combat student isolation and loneliness.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
56737590000000|Conejo Valley Unified|6|The CVUSD is committed to providing all students with a safe learning environment that promotes participation and school connectedness. CVUSD measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness via both the biennial California Healthy Kids Survey in grades 7, 9, and 11; and the annual, locally defined, student LCAP survey in grades 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, and 11. The students surveyed using one or both of these measures consisted of 2% African American, 11% Asian, 25% Hispanic or Latino, 57% White/Caucasian, and 28% that were Two or More Races.  The 2017 California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) yielded increases in student feelings of safety and connectedness. In 2017, 79% of students in 7th and 74% in 9th grade stated that they feel safe at school, while 71% of 11th grade students also stated via the survey that they feel safe at school. On the same survey, 64% of students in grade 7 reported that there were sufficient opportunities for meaningful participation at their school. 45% of students in grade 11 concurred that sufficient opportunities for meaningful participation were present at their respective schools. The composite scores of CHKS yielded high school connectedness ratings for 69% of grade 7 students, 62% of grade 9 students, and 53% of grade 11 students. Although some differences in responses existed between grade-levels, no statistically significant differences in responses between student populations within grade-levels existed.  The locally-defined CVUSD LCAP survey of students in grades 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, and 11 measured student attitudes toward school. The majority of students in all grades reported that they “like being at school.” 89% of students in grades 4 and 5 reported they like being at school, and 70% of students in grades 7, 8, 10, and 11 reported that they like being at school. Further, 96% of students in grades 4 and 5 reported that they feel their teacher cares about them; and 80% of grades 7, 8, 10, and 11 students reported that they feel all of their teachers care about them. An additional student connectedness LCAP metric that is utilized in CVUSD is the percent of high school students participating in at least one school-sponsored co-curricular activity, including Athletics, Dance, Band, or Academic Competitions. Across CVUSD, over 60% of all high school students, including 41% of low income students, 40% of Special Education students, and 26% of students designated English Learners participate in at least one school-sponsored co-curricular activity. However, CVUSD was concerned that these percentages were low. During a student focus group in the fall 2016, and another in fall 2018, the lack of student participation rates was a topic of discussion. Students present stated that they had other interests that took up their time, such as working at a job, participating on a travelling club athletic team, outside arts programs, or that they were simply focusing solely on academics.|2019-06-04||Met|2019
41690050127282|Connect Community Charter|6|The charter school's Educational Vital Signs survey asked respondents about trust, accountability, commitment, connection, and growth. Connect's lowest scores were in the areas of accountability and commitment. Its highest scores were in the areas of trust and connection.  The EVS model shows that action to help with connection and accountability is in regards to safety. Connect is working with teachers and students, as well as facilities, to create an environment where students feel safe. Additionally, the charter school is increasing community events and meetings to continue to build on it's higher involvement scores.|2019-10-03|Connect experienced a change in co-located schools this year. Despite the increased student presence and traffic, connect is continues to work on improving the safety for students and families. This includes reporting incidents on the facilities, following up with repairs, and supporting students with social-emotional lessons.|Met|2019
50755725030317|Connecting Waters Charter|6|Connecting Waters asks students to complete an internal survey developed by the school leadership to ensure relevancy to our students in their special setting.  The survey was sent out to students in every grade. Results are provided and analyzed by the school’s leadership team and Parent LCAP Advisory Committee. Specific data points monitored include: *Student Rating of School Environment *Adult Expectations *Student Expectations *School Connectedness *School Safety *Adults are helpful to students *Adults treat students fairly *Adults treat students respectfully *Adults encourage students to do their best *If students have a problem, they know they can go to a staff member for help.   As a result of data analysis, our Guidance Department increased training regarding high risk students and worked with the Special Education Department to create a post-graduate transition plan for all students. Connecting Waters has also developed a Parent Advisory Council in order to ensure that Connecting Waters receives maximum parent input and to give families an opportunity to connect with other families in its Independent Study setting.  Additionally, because Connecting Waters is a personalized learning independent study charter, student concerns can be addressed individually by each teacher assigned to the student in a 1:1 setting.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
01100170136101|Connecting Waters Charter - East Bay|6|Connecting Waters Charter School, East Bay asks students to complete an internal survey developed by the school leadership to ensure relevancy to our students in their special setting.  The survey was sent out to students in every grade. Results are provided and analyzed by the school’s leadership team and Parent LCAP Advisory Committee, but to protect the identity of students due to a small reporting group, data summary will not be reported out publically. Specific data points monitored include: *Student Rating of School Environment *Adult Expectations *Student Expectations *School Connectedness *School Safety *Adults are helpful to students *Adults treat students fairly *Adults treat students respectfully *Adults encourage students to do their best *If students have a problem, they know they can go to a staff member for help.  Due to small data sizes, to protect the identity of our students, data analysis is not posted publically.  As a result of data analysis, our Guidance Department increased training regarding high risk students and worked with the Special Education Department to create a post-graduate transition plan for all students. Connecting Waters Charter School, East Bay has also developed a Parent Advisory Council in order to ensure that Connecting Waters Charter School, East Bay receives maximum parent input and to give families an opportunity to connect with other families in our Independent Study setting.  Additionally, because Connecting Waters Charter School, East Bay is a personalized learning independent study charter, student concerns can be addressed individually by each teacher assigned to the student in a 1:1 setting.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
50711670138057|Connecting Waters Charter School - Central Valley|6|Connecting Waters Charter School, Central Valley asks students to complete an internal survey developed by the school leadership to ensure relevancy to our students in their special setting.  The survey was sent out to students in every grade. Results are provided and analyzed by the school’s leadership team and Parent LCAP Advisory Committee. Specific data points monitored include: *Student Rating of School Environment *Adult Expectations *Student Expectations *School Connectedness *School Safety *Adults are helpful to students *Adults treat students fairly *Adults treat students respectfully *Adults encourage students to do their best *If students have a problem, they know they can go to a staff member for help.   Due to small data sizes, to protect the identity of our students, data analysis is not posted publically.  As a result of the data analysis, our Guidance Department increased training regarding high risk students and worked with the Special Education Department to create a post-graduate transition plan for all students. Connecting Waters Charter School, Central Valley has also developed a Parent Advisory Council in order to ensure that Connecting Waters Charter School, Central Valley receives maximum parent input and to give families an opportunity to connect with other families in our Independent Study setting.  Additionally, because Connecting Waters Charter School, Central Valley is a personalized learning independent study charter, student concerns can be addressed individually by each teacher assigned to the student in a 1:1 setting.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
55724135530191|Connections Visual and Performing Arts Academy|6|Based on the findings from our California Healthy Kids Survey (grades 9 and 11 surveyed), Summerville High School and Connections Visual and Performing Arts Academy realized the following results: students feel the school is a safe place to be (9th 58% agree, 11th 70% agree), adults have high expectations and encourage students to learn (9th 65% agree, 11th 74% agree), there are caring adults at the school (9th 59% agree, 11th 66% agree), students have academic motivation (9th 71% agree, 11th 67% agree),  teachers work hard to help with school work (9th 53% agree 11th 48% agree), teachers encourage classroom participation (9th 64% agree 11th 58% agree), staff promotes academic success for all students (9th 48% agree 11th 53% agree, parents 77% ), SUHSD provides a supportive and inviting environment for learning (9th 52% agree 11th 45% agree, parents 71%), staff makes it clear that bullying is not tolerated (9th 53% agree 11th 50% agree), school grounds and building are clean (9th 66% agree 11th 75% agree), there is good support from the community (parents 94%), there are opportunities for parents and community to be involved in school (parents 96%). Areas to continue our work on include: students have considered suicide (9th 24% agree 11th 19% agree), there is meaningful student participation (9th 28% agree 11th 31% agree), affected by harassment through rumors (9th 42% agree 11th 46% agree for one or more times), students experience cyberbullying (9th 28% agree 11th 28% agree for one or more times).  Students have experienced an increase of use of marijuana through edibles, smoking, and vaping. We are committed again this year to having a parent and student information night in addition to what they learn in school about drug use, drug abuse and how to say no or help oneself or a friend stay away from drugs.|2019-10-23|Summerville High School and Connections Visual and Performing Arts Academy have implemented the Character Counts program that allows staff to recognized students for doing the right thing with regard to the 6 character counts pillars of Trustworthiness, Respect, Responsibility, Fairness, Caring and Citizenship.  There is a luncheon for students that are recognized and the people that awarded the student speak about why they were selected in front of the group.  The students each receive a Character Counts t-shirt as well.  These ceremonies are done monthly. ASB continues to provide a leadership of the campus to address positive interrelationships between students, between students and adults and within our community of learners through social media. The Summerville High and Connections Academy California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) results have shown good improvement over the last year especially in areas such as feeling safe at school, feeling as if adults care about students, and provide a learning environment where academic achievement is not only important but supported as well. Conversely, the CHKS survey reflects that there are still areas of growth at Summerville High and Connection Academy such as: dealing with feelings of depression, anxiety, hopelessness, suicidal ideation, and cyberbullying.   In addition, students feel that there could be more meaningful participation in school and more parent involvement.|Met|2019
01612590132555|Conservatory of Vocal/Instrumental Arts High|6|The LEA is in process of administering the Healthy Kids Survey.|2019-09-23||Met|2019
07100740000000|Contra Costa County Office of Education|6|Spring 2019 California Health Kids Key Results: - 42% of students report that it is pretty much true or very true that "at my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who listens to me when I have something to say" - 47% of students report that it is pretty much true or very true " at my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me" - 44% of students report that it is pretty much true that "at my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who believes that I will be a success" - 42% agree or strongly agree "I feel safe at my school" - 67% agree or strongly agree " I try hard to make sure that I am good at my schoolwork" - 74% report that in the past 12 months they have never been made fun or, insulted or called names - 53% report that they have used alcohol in their lifetime - 73% report that they have used marijuana in their lifetime - 33% report that they have used cold/cough medicines or over the counter medicines to get high - 51% report that they have "driven a car when you had been using alcohol or drugs or been in a car driven by a friend who had been using" - 44% report that they have smoked a cigarette, 56% report that they have used e-cigarettes  * Takeaways: - We need to improve the way that students feel connected to their school - We need to improve the feeling of safety at school - Our students have a high level of substance use before their incarceration  * Actions: - Focusing our professional development and coaching on providing engaging, culturally relevant instruction that promotes connection - Delivering Social Emotional Direct instruction for 180 mins/week for all students|2019-10-16||Met|2019
07100740134114|Contra Costa School of Performing Arts|6|The Contra Costa School of Performing Arts administers a stakeholder survey annually to assess a variety of performance metrics.  In the areas of school safety and connectedness, our student data shows strong positive feelings in both areas (only 8% of students reported not feeling safe and only 4% of students reported not feeling connected).  While this points to overall strong school climate, there are still concerns around those students that reported a lack of safety or connection with teachers and staff and still others that reported a neutral position in both categories.  The school analyzes this data and continues to work on improvements.  It is informative to look closely at the narrative answers that some student provide as this provides deeper insight into the root causes of their perspective.  We find that two specific focus areas for improvement can build our levels of safety and connection.  The first is expanding and deepening school extracurricular activities and programs.  While the arts programming are a strong start in this area, the students report the need for additional (and often traditional) cultural hallmarks including more dances, rallies, and other student body events.  As such, we have put time and resources into our student leadership program and aim to see them lead this development effort.  The second area is mental health services.  We find that the number of students that report struggles with mental health to be generally increasing over the last decade (in all education settings, not just our school).  Our own students present mental health struggles on a broad spectrum  and require layers of additional support services.  The creation and expansion of an ERMHS (Educationally Related Mental Health Services) program on campus is our measure to provide such support.  Students and parents already report positively about the staff and programming that have been introduced in this area.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
16638910000000|Corcoran Joint Unified|6|1.  Data: Corcoran Unified School District administered the Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 4-12 to measure the perceptions of school safety, connectedness, and academic motivation.  It was administered in January 2018.  Survey results showed that 72% of students feel safe at school, while 77% of staff feel safe at school. 79% of students feel connected to the school most to all of the time.  69% of students feel adults at school care about them.  83% of students feel academically motivated at school.     Something that the District learned from these results is that recent events in the nation play a role in the student’s perception of feeling safe at school.  2. The analysis of the survey identified strengths and areas of need.  The increase in students’ feeling of safety may be a result of staff trying to connect with students and treating them with respect.  PBIS continues as a focus of establishing school-wide expectations and code of conduct.  All schools have received Gold status in past years for their efforts to set supports in behavior, rewards for conduct and productivity, and for establishing interventions to support appropriate behavior and conduct.  Though staff is trying to connect with students, finding opportunities and time to engage with students outside of class has been a challenge in our middle school and high school.   In order to address connectedness and academic motivation, the District is rolling out Capturing Kids Hearts training starting at the middle school in the current year and at the high school the following school year.  3. Use: The district continues to provide a positive, safe, clean, and nurturing environment for students. Building strong relationships between students and staff has been a collaborative effort in order to improve connectedness between the two.  The district understands the effect that developing positive relationships have on students’ academic success.  In addition to providing Capturing Kids Hearts training, the district has increased mental health services at the school sites by hiring a mental health clinician and additional school psychologist.  Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (PBIS) are continuously being strengthened and district-wide, Response to Intervention supports are being reviewed in order to reinforce positive behaviors on campus, develop strong relationships among students and staff and provide targeted behavioral supports to students.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
04100410114991|CORE Butte Charter|6|CORE Butte surveys its students, parents and staff over the course of the academic year. For the purposes of evaluating local measures, CBCS has chosen to review our survey data collected over the 18-19 school year. CORE’s engagement survey shows that a majority of stakeholders truly feel that family leaders and school and school staff continue to collaborate on decisions that affect students and families to help create policies and procedures that support the mission and vision of CBCS while addressing the individual needs of the students and families. Survey results show CBCS works closely with its stakeholders to implement and evaluate decision & to continually meet community needs. CORE strives for 100% parent participation on the Advisory Council and Board. The survey indicates that approximately 90% of stakeholders feel that they can directly advocate and make change on a per student level, which is in direct alignment with our model as a personalized learning school. 85% of CBCS families surveyed feel that they are directly involved in decisions made at the student level and are directly involved in monitoring individual student progress and make personal decisions for his/her student. Survey results show 97% of the school’s families feel our school is a safe & supportive environment. 100% of the students who took the survey who were in Tk-8th grade said they feel safe at school, 97% of the schools 9-12th grade students. 100% of the students who took the survey responded that they like CBCS and 97% of those stated they would highly recommend it to others. 99% of the students who responded stated that the teachers are respectful and kind.. A good example of the type of culture CORE Butte creates at school is the following quote from the survey, “My teachers really showed and interest in my life and how I was doing. And if they noticed that I was struggling in school sometimes they would come up and ask if there was anything that they could do to help me”. CBCS also conducts an annual survey that utilizes the metrics that BCOE created to analyze a school’s ability to engage its stakeholders in decision making. This survey helps lead to decisions that are made by CAC and the Board. CBCS continually strives to provide an environment for students & families that is safe, inviting, and in which students thrive. The survey data shows that CBCS continues to thrive in this area and that culture is a priority. The school works incredibly hard to include all stakeholders in decision making for the school. Through CAC and the Board, CBCS parents and community have a large place on the decision making bodies, along with the fact that parents are engaged in regular decision making with students.  CORE Butte would like to see an increase the number of students and families who engage in the survey process. CORE Butte continues to work on communicating the roles of its Board as well as disseminating information to the community.|2019-09-13|Better communication leads to better academic achievement and a healthier community, the two areas we are focusing on in the LCAP.|Met|2019
58727286115935|CORE Charter|6|CORE Charter School annually asks its students to report on their sense of safety and connectedness through a whole school designed survey. It does this because these are elements the school regards as highly important for its students. According to our survey, of our K-12 students poled most agree they have a sense of belonging to CORE Charter School; students poled feel they can turn to a teacher with a problem, students poled feel safe and feel like they can be themselves, and students poled like learning at the Resource Center. Many feel that the safety CORE ensures helps them reach their goals. A result that captures this sense of safety and connectedness is the fact that students agree to the statement: “I would recommend CORE Charter School to my friends.”|2019-10-10||Met|2019
31103140119214|CORE Placer Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
52714980000000|Corning Union Elementary|6|The last California Healthy School Survey was for the 2017-2018 school year.  251 7th graders were surveyed with 188 students responding giving a 75% response rate. Some of the findings are as follows: 68% felt safe 36% were harassed or bullied 33.5% had school connectedness 47.5% had academic motivation 8% had drug or alcohol use Based on the previous survey results, alcohol and drug use as well as harassment and bullying rates were down. However, the feeling of being safe was lowered (one of the school sites had a school shooting in 2017). Academic motivation was higher, however school connectedness was lowered. Our most recent School Climate Survey was given April 8-18 to 6th, 7th, and 8th grade students. Of 704 students, 677 responded with a response percentage of 96%.    Positive areas of the survey indicated that overall, the schools do a good job with practices and procedures to ensure that school safety is practiced. 74.9% of students either agreed or strongly agreed that school is a safe place for students.This includes practicing fire drills and lockdowns regularly. The students also liked that the schools have surveillance cameras. They also like adults present who make them feel protected. This includes teachers and yard duty staff. Negative feedback from the survey indicated that the fencing around the perimeter of the schools isn't high enough and it is easy for trespassers to jump the fence. There was also an indication of bullying from other students and occasional fights that break out. In addition, middle school students are more aware of the unpredictable dangers of school incidents such as school shootings. Even though there are practices in place, there is still an amount of danger that can always happen.  Off campus, the majority of students felt safe in getting to and from school. 89.6% of students either agreed or strongly agreed that a student is safe when traveling to and from school.The main means of transportation is by bus or car. In the instances where students felt unsafe is when students were alone or unchaperoned. This includes walking home from school alone and waiting at bus stops alone. Students who walked to school with friends or had a parent meet them on their way home from school felt safe. Once again, there was an element of "anything could happen" in unforseen circumstances involving traffic accidents, muggings, or kidnappings.  Actions the district is taking includes outreach services available through our website. These services include:Drug and Alcohol Counseling through the Tehama County Health Services, Suicide Prevention Lifeline, a link to report bullying, and counseling services through the Promise Grant. A number of events are provided to increase school connectedness including back to school night, open houses, a school carnival, talent shows, dance and music performances,  field trips, and access to PE and the arts. (Taken from the LPAC 18-19 Actions)|2019-06-20||Met|2019
52715060000000|Corning Union High|6|In the fall of 2017, Corning Union High School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 167 9th grade students and 139 11th grade students.  One key takeaway from the survey was the large number of students that have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness recently.  33% of 9th graders and 34% of 11th grades said that this was true for them.  There have been many anecdotal observations and conversations in the District about the increasing need for student mental health resources.  The statistic confirmed that.  The District continues to offer full time licensed marriage-family therapists on campus for students in need.  This is in addition to access to school counselors and various behavioral and social-emotional supports and interventions.  Even with these options in place, this will continue to be a challenge for the District in improving student safety and achievement.  The District is currently in the process of administering the CHK to all 9th and 11th grade students.  We will closely examine the results of this data to see if there are any major changes since the 2017 administration.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37680310000000|Coronado Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was used because it is widely used across the state of California.  The following are the key findings from the 2014-2015, 2016-2017 and 2018-2019 CHKS administrations.  In addition to the CHKS, CUSD administered a Safe Schools survey to students in grades 6-12 during the 2017-2018 school year.  Overall, results indicated that 79% of students feel safe while on school grounds, 74% agree that they could talk to an administrator or teacher if they had a problem and 71% feel welcome when they are at school.  A growth area relative to these two surveys is increasing the participation rate to really determine the significance of the survey results.  Response Rate Grade Level 2014-2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 5                      64%              54%              62% 7                      85%              90%              94% 9                      62%                -              91% 11                      69%               78%              91%  School is perceived as very safe or safe Grade Level 2014-2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 5                      80%               87%               87% 7                      88%               79%               75% 9                      85%                  -               78% 11                      92%               87%               81%  School Connectedness Grade Level 2014-2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 5                      54%               62%               76% 7                      75%               73%               74% 9                      67%                    -               72% 11                      66%               66%               69%|2019-10-17|There is no additional information at this time.|Met|2019
33670330000000|Corona-Norco Unified|6|The Corona-Norco Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in Grades 5, 7, 9, 11, and Alternative schools during the 2018 – 2019 school year. This survey is administered every year. The number of students who completed the survey for each grade level are:  Grade 5 – 3068 with a participation rate of 79%  Grade 7 – 3,728 with a participation rate of 92%  Grade 9 – 3,716 with a participation rate of 90%  Grade 11 – 2,791 with a participation rate of 74%  Alternative schools – 489 with a participation rate of 60%  The data showed students feel safe at school. Students feel there is a moderate to high level of caring adults within the schools. Students in CNUSD feel there is a moderate to high level of academic motivation. Based on the results of the survey, CNUSD has developed a plan to help combat the use of vaping within the CNUSD schools.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
49738820000000|Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified|6|As the California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the 2017-18 school year, Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District administered site specific surveys to students regarding school safety and connectedness.  These surveys were analyzed by site principals and discussed with district administration and respective parent organizations including ELAC teams and School Site Councils.  In addition to the site surveys, the Assistant Superintendent held focus groups with students from the school sites.  The Assistant Superintendent met students from the following sites: Thomas Page Academy, Marguerite Hahn Elementary, Evergreen Elementary, Monte Vista Elementary, Richard Crane Elementary, John Reed Elementary, Lawrence Jones Middle School, Technology High School, and Rancho Cotate High School.    Themes that emerged from the student focus groups included: students were happy with their classmates and teachers, they felt their classes were engaging, they appreciated the elective options and project based learning instruction, they felt safe at school and believed they had adults on campus who cared about them, they enjoyed the access to technology, they relished the positive acknowledgments they received from the staff and administrators in terms of incentives and awards, and they appreciated the inclusivity of the students and social/emotional support they received throughout the year. The students requested more field trips, increased access to sports and clubs, more play equipment for recess, increased rigor in their classes, more elective options at the middle school level, additional support to address bullying behavior and strategies to deal with conflict management, improved bathroom facilities, more access to positive feedback from teachers, additional strategies to help deal with academic pressure, opportunities to visit colleges and receive information surrounding college fairs and junior college classes, support with academic stressors, assistance with the Naviance program at the high school level, and increased access to sexual health curriculum and services at the high school level.  English Language Learners at Rancho Cotate High School also mentioned difficulty in accessing all of the curriculum.  They felt that the teachers supported them however there was a perception that some teachers thought the English Learners were not managing their time effectively.  Students commented that they were trying to the best of their abilities but the language barrier was a significant hindrance to homework completion and demonstrating mastery on examinations.  As a result of the student feedback and data reviews, the district selected two areas of focus for the 2019-20 school year: improve instructional practices and increase positive student relationships.  These two areas are supported through professional development and continuous review by site and district administration and support through the Sonoma County Office of Education.|2019-10-15|In the 2018-19 school year, the district began implementation of Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) in grades Transitional Kindergarten through eighth. The objective of this implementation was to increase student connectedness to school and establish common expectations and language to support student learning while building positive relationships among the students, staff, and site administration. The Second Step and Toolbox curricula were purchased to help teach social/emotional skills that allow students to better deal with issues and problems that may arise. School staffs are in different phases of the implementation and understanding of PBIS, however the school district is committed to the PBIS framework to reduce discipline issues and increase student engagement.  In addition to creating positive learning environments for all of our students, CRPUSD highly prioritizes student safety. District and site staffs review safety procedures and practice emergency drills regularly. Our administrators, teachers and support staff receive feedback from local law enforcement and fire services regarding safety drills and tactical procedures. CRPUSD has established tremendous relationships with Rohnert Park Public Safety, the Cotati Police Department, and the cities of Rohnert Park and Cotati.|Met|2019
45699550121640|Cottonwood Creek Charter|6|Cottonwood Creek Charter School has developed a local climate survey that is administered to all 4th-8th graders during the Spring of each year. The local climate survey addresses the themes of the California Healthy Kids Survey as well as themes specific to the local school and community. The local climate survey, administered online through Survey Monkey, captures valid measures of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. A summary of the results of the local survey is reported each Spring to parents, the school community, and to the Cottonwood Creek Charter School Board.|2019-11-12|Cottonwood Creek also administers two surveys to parents each Spring.  The first survey is school climate parent survey which gives parents the opportunity to provide feedback on the climate of the school including school safety, facilities, educational program offerings, field trip ideas and elective/enrichment program feedback.  The second survey is a Teacher Feedback survey which provides feedback and overall ratings and assessments of their child's teacher in relation to Teacher Effectiveness Standards.  This past year, the survey results showed the following priorities: the need to continue to work on school safety and the need to improve school facilities.  The school board and administration and responded to these priorities by installing new safety gates and fencing around the school.  The board also recently upgrading heating and air conditioning in teacher classrooms as well as replace the roof of the main wing of the school.  Cottonwood Creek is also in the process of building a new multi-purpose gymnasium which will is projected to be completed by December of 2020.|Met|2019
45699550000000|Cottonwood Union Elementary|6|1. DATA: Our results showed a need to improve communications with parents.  We make a concerted effort to communicate through a variety of platforms: email, website, one-on-one parent conferences, Cottonwood Facebook page, auto-dial phone calls, notes home, meetings, parent conferences, and the parent liaison. 2. MEANING:  Areas of strength- We communicate using multiple platforms. We are a tight knit community and have a strong Parent Club. Parent representatives attend our School Site Council meetings and our Parent Liaison supports our most vulnerable student groups. The Liaison works with families to link them to community resources and works one-on-one with our at-risk student groups.              Areas for growth- chronic absenteeism and attendance rate for all schools.         Challenges/barriers-We have a significant amount of students with unexcused and excused absences which affects student achievement and our budget. We have made a concerted effort to educate parents on the importance of attending school especially in prek-1st grades. An Attendance Campaign has been implemented and we have targeted our chronically absent students this year so that we provide these at-risk students with the necessary supports and resources to succeed. 3. USE: As a result of our parent feedback and in the spirit of continuous improvement, we will implement the following actions: Communication Committee, Increase Parent Engagement Activities,|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37682130129668|County Collaborative Charter|6|Data:  Input Survey - Parent Participants 21 with students in student groups: EL 9.5%, SWD 9.5%, Low Socio econ 23%, Student w Disability 9.5%, N/A 42% White 33%,  Hispanic 42%, Am Indian 9.5%, Two or More 4.75, Declined10.8%  Overall % agreement with: 100% overall parent satisfaction with the school 100% curriculum and instruction are challenging and engaging 100% teacher-of-record cares about their student’s education 93.3% satisfied with school communication 93.8% teacher available 93.8% safe and welcome  71% events and learning activities avail Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rating of our school. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and, the school's building partnerships with parents. Use: Staff collaboration and training on effective and welcoming communication.   Input Survey - Student Participants: (20) EL 32.8%, SWD 31.6%, FY 5.3%, LI 5%, N/A 25.3% 100% their teacher cares about their education and is committed to helping them succeed 100% safe and welcome to meet with their teacher to discuss their progress 100% overall student satisfaction with their school 100% good school communication 95% the curriculum provides challenging grade level instruction and assessment 95% there is someone at the school that they can talk to if they need help with a problem and support Meaning: Continue collaboration and training to maintain and continue overall satisfaction with the school program. Use: Identify research based communication strategies to implement.  Positive School Student Climate Survey High Expectations: Increases confidence and improves academic performance. 100% surveyed feel encouraged and motivated to do their best and that teachers believe that the they can do good work and encourages them to work hard and be successful.  School Safety- 100% surveyed feel that the students feel safe and comfortable to meet with their teacher to discuss school work and that their teacher listens to their concerns and helps them find solutions.  Respectful Climate: Promotes positive school climate - 100% surveyed feel valued and respected by their teacher and school and feel that their teacher is supportive and gives useful feedback  Caring Adults: Having one or more caring adults increases students experiencing success at school 100% feel that there is someone at the school that they can talk to and will call if they are absent from doing their school work   Social and Emotional Learning: The process through which students effectively apply the knowledge and skills necessary to set and achieve positive goals. 100% surveyed feel that if they can work independently to problem solve, have the ability to set goals and work to reach them, and have the ability to ask for help when they need it.  Meaning:  Overall strength in student's perception of a positive school climate at County Collaborative. Use: Continue staff Positive School Climate collaboration and training.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19644360000000|Covina-Valley Unified|6|Every two years C-VUSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The last survey as administered in 2017-18 and the survey will again be administered during the 2019-20 school year. The school district also administers the Gallup Student Poll.  The Gallup Student Poll measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career and financial literacy of students in fifth through 12th grade. C-VUSD analyzes the results of the CKHS and the Gallup Poll at the district, site, and grade level. The results are shared with the Board of Education and the results are included in presentations to staff, parents, PTA’s, and local advisory boards. The District and school staff look for data trends, including highlights and areas of concern. The District and staff also seek additional input and understanding from all stakeholders in order to plan actions and services, including prevention and intervention, based on the results and additional feedback.  The District believes that the survey and poll results reveal that the students' perception of their experience in C-VUSD is improving and that the students feel that they are safe at school, are academically motivated, have caring adult relationships, and have high expectations. The metrics indicated that these measures decrease as students reach high school, which is aligned with how the other schools see their results. The challenge for the District is to validate the data results and to use other local measures, such as the Student LCAP Survey, to get ongoing feedback regarding the students’ school experiences. The overall Gallup Student Poll results are trending up. One of the lowest scoring metrics is Entrepreneurial Aspiration. Further study of this metric needs to be done to determine if this metric is correlated to other metrics such as Socio-economically Disadvantaged designation. The District also needs to gather additional data for Students With Disabilities and English Learner Students to develop intervention and supports for all student stakeholder groups.  The District All will facilitate review and revisions of the schools’ Multi-Tiered Systems of Support to ensure timely interventions and supports are provided to students in an effort to improve instructional experiences the students’ overall school experience. The district has also put Deans at the secondary schools and hired additional mental health support staff to provide students with resources and avenues to address issues that impact social-emotional and academic success. The support staff is using technology to track intervention and support measures. Preliminary analysis of both quantitative and qualitative data indicates that the actions taken by the District are creating positive results.|2019-10-07|California Healthy Kids Survey 2017-18   Elementary Target sample: 780; Final Number: 510; Response Rate 65%  Key Indicators: School Engagement and Supports  School connectedness: 49%; Academic motivation: 56%; Caring adult relationships: 53%; High expectations: 53%  School Safety Feel safe at school: 82% Disciplinary Environment Students treated with respect: 82%   Secondary Target sample: 885 (Gr 7), 988 (Gr 9), 1020 (Gr 11) Final number: 803 (Gr 7), 856 (Gr9), 700 (Gr 11) Response Rate: 91% (Gr 7), 87% (Gr 9) 69% (Gr 11)  Key Indicators: School Engagement and Supports         School connectedness: 26% (Gr 7), 20%, (Gr 9), 16% (Gr 11) Academic motivation: 38% (Gr 7), 33% (Gr 9), 31% (Gr 11) Caring adult relationships: 29% (Gr 7), 28% (Gr 9), 31% (Gr 11) High expectations: 43% (Gr 7), 38% (Gr 9), 37% (Gr 11)  School Safety         School perceived as very safe or safe: 63% (Gr 7), 64% (Gr 9), 58%, (Gr 11)  Gallup Survey   2017-18   Engagement: 3.84; Hope: 4.2; Entrepreneurial Aspiration: 2.14; Career/Financial Literacy: 2.98 2018-19   Engagement: 3.91; Hope: 4.23; Entrepreneurial Aspiration: 2.27; Career/Financial Literacy: 3.08|Met|2019
01100176001788|Cox Academy|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, Cox administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and Cox has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, Cox students rated 3.6 on Student Relationships, which includes evaluating sense of belonging and sense of safety. Based on results from the survey, Cox will continue to implement a Strong Start curriculum to ensure strong classroom cultures that support belonging and student learning.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
38684786112601|Creative Arts Charter|6|During the Spring of 2019, our third to eighth grade students took a survey to report upon their feelings about CACS.  Some questions and responses included: Do the adults at cacs encourage you  to work hard so that you can be successful? 87.6% of students said yes Do teachers give students a chance to take part in classroom discussions and activities? 86.3% of students said yes I’m glad I’m a student at CACS (this question was asked only to grades 6-8). 81.5% of students in grades 6-8 said yes Do you feel like you learn at lot at CACS every day?  (this question was only asked to 3-5 students)? 90.9% of students said yes. Finally, as part of the family survey, 91.4% of families agreed or strongly agreed that their child feels safe and respected at CACS. While the information above is useful , after reviewing the data, we decided that we could learn more specifics about our students and their needs (including home life and culture) by using the Healthy Kids Survey.  This will be something that we implement during the 2019/2020 school year.  The results from our survey show that a majority of students are happy at Creative Arts.  Upon closer review of the data, there seems to be a disparity - students in third to fifth grade tend to feel more positively about their experiences at Creative Arts than their counterparts in sixth to eighth grade.  Our current leadership model has had a Lower School Administrator and a Middle School Administrator, and as a result, grades K-5 can feel separate from grades 6-8.  In an effort to unify the entire school community, we are changing the leadership model to be more cohesive to the whole school.  Next year, the positions will be a K-8 Director of Culture and Climate who handles school culture, discipline, and enacts Restorative practices for all students and a K-8 Director of Curriculum and Instruction, who oversees content, pedagogy, and vertical alignment for all of the teachers in grades K-8.  These positions will support the Executive Director and the K-8 Director of Arts.  Furthermore, in order to address the social-emotional needs of our students in a more comprehensive manner, we are planning to clear out one of the upstairs shared offices, and convert it directly into a Wellness Center. This space will serve as an area where students can drop into if they need to talk to someone, and will also serve as a designated counseling and meeting space.  Restorative Circles and conflict resolution can also take place in the Wellness Center.  We have also been in conversation with the Marina Counseling Center to increase the number of mental health professionals available to work with our students.  Next year, a number of interns will join our community, which will ensure that more of our students have access to regular counseling.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
34765050108795|Creative Connections Arts Academy|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered annually to students in grades 7 – 12. A district developed survey was administered during the 2017-18 school year to students in grade 5. The surveys includes items in a variety of domains measuring school climate and safety.  - 53% of 5th graders had favorable responses to school culture and climate questions. - School Connectedness responses for agree or strongly agree at secondary sites was 59% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th, 42% for 10th and 11th grade, and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups. - School Safety responses for strongly agree at secondary sites was 60% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th grade, 42% for 10th and 11th grade and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups.  –The school connectedness and safety responses showed a small decline from the previous year administration of the CHKS at 7th and 11th grades but also showed gains of 6% at 9th grade. –Efforts to increase school connectedness for secondary sites includes the use of Activity Directors. These positions contribute to increased student engagement before, during, and after school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49738820123786|Credo High|6|Credo has grown in population size dramatically over the last four years.  The school's population more than doubled in that time.  The California Healthy Kids Survey has been administered each year to help gauge our progress as we grow.  Key successes are students' sense of safety and low harassment and bullying.  Three years ago Credo ranked in the 99th percentile compared to other schools in the state and similar school.  Last year's results showed that we have slipped to the 95th percentile.  Key areas for growth according to student reports are High Expectations and Caring Relationships, Opportunities for Meaningful Engagement and School Connectedness.  In the 2019/20 school year administration, faculty and staff have taken steps to provide increased supports for students as well as more opportunities for meaningful engagement.|2019-10-07|The Credo campus expansion and remodel is now complete.  The new wing includes six new classrooms and a new theater space contribute to the overall climate.  Credo's School Climate Report Card from the Healthy Kids Survey for 2018-19 showed that Credo is in the 94th state percentile for its school climate index and the 95th percentile compared to similar schools.|Met|2019
31668520120105|Creekside Charter|6|We provide two surveys regarding school climate.    1. TRIPOD Survey that looks at 7 areas of growth and learning.   2. Local LCAP Survey that looks at several areas of our school, including school safety and connectedness.    A few examples of our 18/19 survey results   Question: Creekside Charter creates a social environment where my child feels safe, accepted, and supported by his / her peers?  Answer: Of the 109 respondents, 51% strongly agreed and 41% agreed   Question: My child has a positive relationship with his/ her teacher and feels safe in the classroom?  Answer: Of the 109 respondents, 58% strongly agreed and 32% agreed   Question: How much of a sense of belonging does your child feel atour school?  Answer: of the 109 respondents, 49% A tremendous amount of belonging and 38% quite a bit of belonging   Overall, our results indicate students feel safe and connected at our school.  Two years ago on our survey we were concerned about social emotional growth and we implemented an SEL program modeled after the Neueva Institute for Social Emotional Learning.   Additionally, our small class sizes have left our 7th and 8th grade students wanting more social opportunities.  We have listened to this feedback and provided more opportunities to connect with each other. This year we have started a 6th, 7th and 8th grade advisory programs with the hope that students can feel connected at school.      Creekside is extremely proud of our climate, relationships and having students feel connected on campus is one of our foundational pillars.  We believe that relationships come first.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
54721400136507|Crescent Valley Public Charter II|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  97% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  99% reported that they felt connected to the school *  98% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
10625470136523|Crescent View South II|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  97% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  91% reported that they felt connected to the school *  93% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity. The school has implemented the use of the S.O.U.R.C.E curriculum, which is a social-emotional learning based elective course.  This course is designed for students who need extra support in the areas of identity, self-confidence, emotional management, decision-making skills and wellness habits.   In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.  The parents had the opportunity to complete the WASC survey that is aligned to the LCAP on October 10th.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
10101080109991|Crescent View West Public Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  98% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  96% reported that they felt connected to the school *  98% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that many of our students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330135616|Crete Academy|6|Our school climate results revealed some important trends. We learned that students really enjoyed or really disliked learning about math. Additionally, students really felt safe, secure and cared for at the school. The majority of students felt that there was at least one adult on campus that they could trust. Students for the most part liked their teacher and felt their teacher treated them and their classmates fairly. Overall, students were very dissatisfied with the school lunch program and wanted better food that was not processed. Finally, students enjoyed shopping at the Crete Store and visiting the Wellness Center.  In response to the survey results, all comments and notes were shared with the relevant staff, including teachers. We also discussed specific comments with the appropriate staff, to ensure that a plan of action was developed and implemented. Lastly, we held a food tasting session so the students could sample food from multiple vendors and participate in the decision-making process for determining which vendor we engage with. Ultimately, we used the survey feedback to make adjustments in our processes and policies in an effort to improve our student experience.|2019-11-01|NA|Met|2019
16638750101717|Crossroads Charter|6|99% of students stated that Crossroads provides what I need to learn. 97% of students stated CCA makes them feel important 91% of students stated they enjoy attending CCA 99% of students stated that CCA staff are interested in making sure I do school work daily Strength:Our students feel included, safe, enjoy attending school and believe that CCA provides the materials they need to be successful. Growth: Our state test scores show that there are areas of improvement needed. One area that was noted on the student survey is that students who do attend onsite classes would like to have lunch; this year lunch is being served. Challenges/Barriers: Trying to get students to attend onsite classes that will help improve test scores is a major area of need. The student survey noted that the students that attended onsite classes would like to be served a lunch. So, added for the 2019-20 school year a hot lunch was added for students who attend onsite classes. A full time math teacher was hired to help with math tutoring and to increase math achievement.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647330121848|Crown Preparatory Academy|6|At Crown Prep Academy we take school safety and connectedness very seriously, as such we administer a survey to all students every year. When asked the degree to which they agree with the statement, “At this school I feel safe,” 77% of students answered agree or strongly agree.  Regarding connectedness, When asked the degree to which they agree with the statement, “My teacher respects me and my opinions,”  91% of students answered strongly agree or agree. Students feel safe at school and feel respected and connected with each other and staff.|2019-02-06||Met|2019
36676940000000|Cucamonga Elementary|6|California Healthy Kids Survey Results - Elementary Schools – 78% feel safe most or all the time. Elementary Schools – 95% Rated (high/moderate) on school connectedness. Middle School -- 60% feel safe or very safe at school. Middle School – 87% Rated (high/moderate) on school connectedness. We need to continue to improve our connectedness for students. This data is used by the LCAP stakeholder committee to provide better service. Last year, at the end of the year, we added in school solutions advisors to assist students in the process of self-regulation. This year will be its first full year to help students with self regulation and connection on the school campuses.|2019-09-26||Met|2019
12627370000000|Cuddeback Union Elementary|6|Statement Cuddeback School  Rating Percent Responding I have friends at Cuddeback, and I look forward to coming to school most days. Strongly disagree 0  Disagree 6  Neither disagree or agree 21  Agree 30  Strongly Agree 42 Bullying is a problem at Cuddeback School. Strongly disagree 24  Disagree 27  Neither disagree or agree 33  Agree 12  Strongly Agree 3 I feel connected to Cuddeback, like I am a part of this school. Strongly disagree 3  Disagree 3  Neither disagree or agree 12  Agree 45  Strongly Agree 36 The teachers at this school treat kids fairly and with respect. Strongly disagree 3  Disagree 3  Neither disagree or agree 18  Agree 27  Strongly Agree 48 I feel safe in my school, I’m not worried about another student hurting me. Strongly disagree 0  Disagree 3  Neither disagree or agree 18  Agree 36  Strongly Agree 42|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19644440000000|Culver City Unified|6|The Mission of the Culver City Unified School District, a diverse haven of excellence, is to ensure that each student possesses the academic and personal skills necessary to achieve his/her highest potential as a valued, responsible member of society by providing challenging, personalized educational experiences in a safe, nurturing environment and by fostering a passion for teaching and learning with committed parent and community involvement. CCUSD recognizes that the key to achieving our district mission is to ensure a positive school climate, where students feel safe and connected. To assess school climate, the District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade students. Questions designed to gather feedback on school safety and connectedness were also included in the annual staff and parent/community LCAP surveys. According to the CHKS survey, 84% of 5th graders, 71% of 7th graders, 63% of 9th graders, and 52% of 11th graders feel safe at school. Additionally, 67% of students in secondary setting and 96% of elementary students reported feeling connected to their school. Although the percentages of certain secondary grade levels who indicated "Agree/Strongly Agree" did not meet CCUSD's goal of 75% or above,  the percentages of students who responded "Disagree/Strongly" indicate that a significant percentage responded neither agreeing nor disagreeing. As part of school connectedness, 87% of elementary students report that there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about them at school, while 70% of secondary students report the same. These results show the overall perceptions of students; our next steps include engaging students in understanding what factors contribute most to their sense of school connectedness. This outreach will come in the form of a locally designed survey as well as student focus groups.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
43694190000000|Cupertino Union|6|During the 2017-2018 school year, CUSD administered the California Health Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in Grades 5 and 7. We administer this survey every other year in our District, and currently we are preparing for the administration of the 2019-2020 CHKS survey to measure progress. We utilized data from the 2017-2018 school year to identify focus areas for our spring 2019 LCAP including: increasing participation in 5th grade to ensure valid results (minimum of 70%), increasing the percentage of students reported "Very Much True" for indicators of Meaningful Participation (from 15% to 25%) and increasing the percentage of students reporting "Strongly Agree" for indicators of School Connectedness (from 31% to 41%). These areas also connect to commitments outlined in our new CUSD Strategic Plan, including a focus on personalizing learning and developing the whole child. This school year, we provided flexible funding to all school sites to continue their work in supporting social-emotional learning and developing a positive school climate. Schools are engaged in improvement work such as implementing PBIS and/or social-emotional learning curriculum (for example:  Second Step, Soul Shoppe and/or Project Cornerstone).  Each school's SPSAs targets specific improvement goals and actions in this area.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
55723550000000|Curtis Creek Elementary|6|California Healthy Kid Survey (Grade 5) School connections 73%  Academic motivation 94%  Caring adults in school 83% High expectations-adults in school 91% Meaningful participation 40% Facilities upkeep 85% Parent involvement in schooling 81% Social and emotional learning support 67% Anit-bullying climate 67% Feel safe at school 78% Been hit or pushed 41% Mean rumor spread about you 48% Called bad names or target of mean jokes 48% Saw a weapon at school 15% Students well behaved 67% Students treated fairly when break rules  63% Students treated with respect 81% Alcohol or drug use 30% Marijuana use 4% Cigarette use 11% E-cigarette use 4% Experienced sadness 19% California Healthy Kid Survey (Grade 7) School connectedness 63% Academic motivation 79% Chronic truancy 5% Caring adult relationships 66% High expectations 82% Meaningful participation 31% Facilities upkeep 70% Parent involvement in school 63% School perceived as very safe or safe 63% Experienced bullying 40% Had mean rumors or lies spread 50% Been afraid of being beaten up 20% Been in a physical fight 18% Seen a weapon on campus 13% Current alcohol or drug use 15% Current marijuana 5% Current binge drinking 0% Been drunk or high at school, ever 5% Current cigarette smoking 3% Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 33%  Considered suicide 25%   Curtis Creek is in the process of working with behavioral health services to seak counselors on our campus. The district is also looking for tutoring services at school and an open "safe space" with a trusted adult. The district is specifically looking at implementing services for our students in the area of welfare and mental health and to decrease the consideration of suicide and hopelessness.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
54718600000000|Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified|6|Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified School District’s most recent California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), 2017-18, demonstrates significant gains for both the middle and high school’s School Climate Report Card over the past three survey administration results; 2013-14, 2015-16, and 2017-18. The School Climate Report Card provides the School Climate Index, based on responses from students on the California Healthy Kids Survey. The scores on the School Climate Index range from approximately 100 to 500, with high scores representing a more positive school climate. At the High School level, the School Climate Index improved by 13 points, scoring 323 in 2018 to 310 in 2016. The school climate subscale results indicate a 52-point gain in the area of Overall Low Violence and Substance Use, scoring 392 in 2018 as compared to 340 in 2016. The low physical/emotional violence victimization improved from a 335 score to a 399 score, between 2016 and 2018, respectfully. The low harassment and bullying improved by 47 points between 2016 and 2018. The low substance use at school improved by 36 points with a score of 360 in 2018 as compared to 324 in 2016. At the Middle School level, The School Climate Index took a small dip of 22 points in 2018 as compared to 2016, but it continues to have an overall improvement with a score of 292 in 2018 as compared to 177 in 2014. The school climate subscale results indicate a 11-point gain in the area of Overall Low Violence and Substance Use, scoring 354 in 2018 as compared to 343 in 2016. The low physical/emotional violence victimization improved from a 331 score to a 350 score, between 2016 and 2018, respectfully. The low harassment and bullying improved by 5 points between 2016 and 2018 survey results. The low substance uses at school improved by 19 points with a score of 326 in 2018 as compared to 307 in 2016.  At the Elementary level, Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified School District’s most recent California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), 2017-18, demonstrates students feel the schools in the district have of a positive school climate, providing students a safe and supportive environment. The CHKS results indicated that in the area of Perceived School Safety, 100% of students in grade 5 agreed or significantly agreed that the schools they attended were a safe place for student as compared to 92% in 2016. In the area of Bullying and Fighting, 76% of student in grade 5 reported that Harassment or Bullying among students is a mild to insignificant problem and 88% of students in grade 5 reported that Physical Fighting between students was a mild to insignificant problem as compared to 65% and 83%, respectfully. 94% of students in grade 5 reported the Gang-Related Activity was a mild to insignificant problem at their school in 2018 as compared to 89% in 2016. In the area of Substance Abuse, the 2018 and 2016 results indicate 98% of student in grade 5 reported that alcohol and drug use was a mild to insignificant problem at their school.|2019-10-10|Our schools build cultures of respect, responsibility, courage, and kindness, where students and adults are committed to quality work and citizenship. School structures and traditions ensure that every student is known and cared for, that student leadership is nurtured, and that contributions to the school and world are celebrated. Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) and restorative discipline strengthen our positive school culture. At the Secondary level, an Alternatives to Suspension matrix has been developed so that students are provided with other means of correction such as counseling to help address their behavior. The 3 elementary schools and the middle school have received either county or state recognition for model PBIS programs.|Met|2019
12627450000000|Cutten Elementary|6|School Climate Survey for Students - Analysis Fifth and sixth grade students were surveyed, to capture a valid measure of their perceptions of school safety and connectedness.   Results of the survey show an overall positive sense of feeling safe and connected to school. The figures below indicate the percentage of students who agree or strongly agree with the following statements:  Current Local Survey 2019 - 20 I feel close to people at school 72% I am happy to be at this school 83% I feel like I am part of this school 74% The teachers at this school treat students fairly 67% I feel safe in my school 71%  Staff will continue with strategies to make connections with all students. We have increased our school social worker staff from 1.3 FTE to 1.5 FTE to address student needs. Class study meetings, Check-in Check-out to provide a daily personal connection with identified students, social groups, and individual counseling are examples of  services to support students who exhibit behaviors of concern and/or a disconnect with school. We are putting into place a No Bully Committee, and a Student Council is being implemented at Cutten School. We continue with PBIS and MTSS, overseen by our School Climate Committee. Fifth grade students will complete the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the spring of 2020. School Climate Survey for Parents - Analysis School to Home Communication 90% Parent Participation encouraged 90% Students Safe and Connected 87% The parent survey, with 152 responses, indicates overwhelmingly that our families perceive communication, participation, and safe and connectedness as strengths. Cutten District will continue to nurture an open, respectful, and highly beneficial relationship with families. School Climate Survey for Teachers - Analysis Staff Connectedness and Open Communication 100% Student Connectedness and Opportunities 100% The results of our teacher survey shows that all teachers who responded agree or strongly agree that there is open communication within the organizational structure of the district, as well as student connectedness.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
42750100000000|Cuyama Joint Unified|6|The CHKS survey was administered to grades 5, 9 by the LEA during the spring of 2019.  Two questions that were of particular import to the LEA in evaluating priority 6 were: 1. The questions relating to school connectedness.  These questions differ slightly at each grade level, but they measure students' sense of connectedness to the school.  74.0% of students say they feel connected with their school.  2. The questions relating to school safety.  These questions measure whether students feel safe at school.  75.5% of students say they feel safe at school.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
44697650100305|Cypress Charter High|6|Cypress administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year for 9th and 11th grade students. This survey measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The most recent survey was administered in the Spring of the 2018-19 school year.  Most recently this survey was administered during the 2018-2019 school year. The majority of students surveyed reported high levels of school engagement and support.  68% of 9th grade students and 75% of 11th grade students were reported to have a high to moderate level of school connectedness based on the applied CHKS formula.  75% of 9th graders and 64% of 11th graders reported feeling academically motivated. 70% of 9th graders and 87% of 11th graders reporting caring relationships with at least one adult at school.  78% of 9th graders and 96% of 11th graders agreed or strongly agreed that adults at school hold high academic expectations.  While students reported strong feelings of school safety, the number reporting feeling bullied or harassed is cause for concern. 92% of surveyed students agree that they feel safe at school.  71% of 9th graders and 23% of 11th graders reported experiencing harassment or bullying in the last year. 52% of 9th graders and 42% of 11th graders reported having had mean lies or rumors spread about them.  Of greatest concern is the number of students who report chronic sadness/hopelessness and the number who have considered suicide. 64% of 9th graders and 54% of 11th graders have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness. 32% of 9th graders and 35% of 11th graders have considered suicide.   Planned and in-progress actions include:  1. Anti-bullying curriculum in 9th grade classes 2. Continued focus on Restorative Justice Practices including Circles of Support and Accountability (COSA) for students who are struggling academically, emotionally or to address concerning behavior. 3.Continued utilization of community resources to support students’ mental health and wellness  and to provide education regarding drugs and alcohol use, sexual health, suicide prevention, etc.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
30664800000000|Cypress Elementary|6|Parent participation in Cypress School District Annual Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) Survey includes parent responses across all six schools. The survey was available in English, Spanish, and Korean.  Survey notification and access were provided through a variety of communication tools: email, newsletters, voice messages and district/school website. When reporting on their involvement, parents/guardians report they have been informed of the Local Control Funding Formula and the LCAP through school and district communication, and that they have an opportunity to share their opinions on the actions in the LCAP through district surveys and decision-making committees (e.g., School Site Council).  Responding parents/guardians agree that their families feel part of the school community and that the school supports effective communication and parent involvement. In open-ended responses, parents describe the strengths of their child’s school the most commonly cited themes include: a variety of parent involvement opportunities, including volunteering, which supports a positive school environment, parent effective communication through a variety of means, and safe and engaging campus for all stakeholders. Parents/guardians identified areas of improvements in the following areas: social and emotional training for teachers and students and a districtwide positive behavior support system. The survey was selected to have the ability to compare the results over time in an effort to show on-going reflection and progress over time. Survey focus questions were aligned to the local indicators: implementation of State Standards and course access, pupil engagement, and school climate.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
57726780119578|Da Vinci Charter Academy|6|DVCA utilizes the Youth Truth Student Survey to assess aspects of school culture and climate including but not limited to academic rigor, engagement, relationships, safety and college readiness. The survey is administered annually to all DVCA students but is separated into a middle school survey for grades 7-9 and a high school survey for grades 10-12. The results are not aggregated between the two surveys. The survey results are viewed annually by a group of DVCA students, DVCA staff, the DVCA Advisory Board and DJUSD District Office Administrators. Results of the survey can be dis-aggregated into subgroups and allow for comparison against a range of other schools, including those in DJUSD. Results are used to inform changes and/or improvement in policy and practice at each site.   At DV High School, the 2018-19 Youth Truth Survey Results demonstrate above average ratings in the domains of Relationships, Belonging and Peer Collaboration, and School Culture. Feedback in the domains of Engagement and Academic Rigor was typical of other schools surveyed and feedback in the domain of College and Career Readiness was below other schools. An additional notable piece of data is that DVCA male students demonstrate lower ratings in comparison to DVCA female students in nearly every single question on the survey. This feedback has informed DVCA’s decisions to develop two new CTE Pathways, increase opportunities for students and families to connect in-person with counseling staff and add additional parent engagement events to promote post-secondary planning for both juniors and seniors. Additionally, DVCA is planning to conduct focus groups to learn about the different experiences of its male and female students to learn more about how the program can better address the needs of its male students, which happens to be a larger portion of the overall student body.    At DV Junior High, the 2018-19 Youth Truth Survey Results demonstrate above average ratings in the domains of Relationships, Belonging and Peer Collaboration, and School Culture. Da Vinci Junior High School will continue to maintain a strong school culture with the Where Everyone Belongs (WEB) orientation and transition program, Restorative Practices community building and response to student conflict, and ASB Leadership activities throughout the school year. Feedback in the domain of Engagement was typical of other schools surveyed and feedback in the domain of Academic Rigor was below other schools. DVJH will continue to align curriculum to the California state standards, ensuring students have access to the highest level of rigor. In addition, DVJH will take steps to incorporate opportunities for students meeting the content standards to advance in more challenging curricular activities to increase academic rigor for the appropriate students.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19768690131128|Da Vinci Communications|6|School culture survey indicators at Da Vinci Communications remain strong with positive survey responses in all areas near or above 85%. 91% of Da Vinci Communications students consistently report that the school creates a compassionate and caring learning community (ratings of good, very good, and excellent), a rate consistent with previous years responses. 91% of students reporting that their relationship with teachers overall was good, very good, or excellent in 2018-19, a rate 5% higher than in 2017-18. Good, very good, and excellent ratings on how well Da Vinci Communications created an environment of high integrity, respect, and trust saw a significant decrease from 92% in 201-18 to 83% in 2018-19, though the 2018-19 rate is consistent with results from years previous to 2017-18. Nearly all Da Vinci Communications students consistently report feeling safe on campus, with 99% of students report feeling safe at school in 2018-19, a rate slightly higher than in previous years.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19768690128728|Da Vinci Connect|6|School culture survey indicators at Da Vinci Connect remain strong with positive survey responses in all areas above 90%. Da Vinci Connect students consistently report that the school creates a compassionate and caring learning community (ratings of good, very good, and excellent) with a 98% rating in 2018-19 and at ratings slightly higher than in the three previous years. 97% of students in 2018-19 report that their connections with teachers overall was good, very good, or excellent, a rate consistent with previous years. Good, very good, and excellent ratings on how well DV Connect created an environment of high integrity, respect, and trust has also remained consistently high at above 90% for the last three years. Da Vinci Connect students consistently report feeling safe on campus, with 100% of students report feeling safe at school in 2018-19.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19768690119636|Da Vinci Design|6|School culture survey indicators at Da Vinci Design remain strong with positive survey responses in all areas near or above 85%. Approximately 90% of Da Vinci Design students have consistently reported for the last four years that the school creates a compassionate and caring learning community (ratings of good, very good, and excellent). The number of students reporting that their relationship with teachers overall was good, very good, or excellent saw a strong increase in 2018-19 to 91% from 86% in 2017-18. Good, very good, and excellent ratings on how well Da Vinci Design created an environment of high integrity, respect, and trust decreased slightly to 84% in 2018-19 from 86% in 2017-18, though the rate remains above the 80% goal for this metric. Nearly all Da Vinci Design students consistently report feeling safe on campus, with 98% of students reporting feeling safe at school in 2018-19 and at least 98% of students reporting feeling safe in the three years prior.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19101990138669|Da Vinci RISE High|6|School culture survey indicators at Da Vinci RISE remain strong with positive survey responses in all areas near or above 90%. 90% of students reported that the school creates a compassionate and caring learning community (ratings of good, very good, and excellent) in the 2018-19 survey. Similarly, 87% of students reported that their relationship with teachers overall was good, very good or excellent. and 88% of students positively reported that Da Vinci RISE created an environment of high integrity, respect, and trust. Nearly all Da Vinci RISE students consistently report feeling safe on campus, with 97% of students report feeling safe at school in 2018-19 school year.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19768690119016|Da Vinci Science|6|The number of students reporting that the school creates a compassionate and caring learning community (ratings of good, very good, and excellent) decreased to 73% in 2018-19 from 92% in 2017-18. The number of students reporting that their relationship with teachers overall was good, very good, or excellent also decreased slightly to 87% in 2018-19 from 89% in 2017-18. Good, very good, and excellent ratings on how well Da Vinci Science created an environment of high integrity, respect, and trust also declined to 71% in 2018-19 from 85% in 2017-18. Nearly all Da Vinci Science students consistently report feeling physically safe on campus, with over 98% of students report feeling safe at school in 2018-19 as well as in the two years prior. A new question about feeling emotionally safe on campus was also added in 2018-19, with 89% of students reporting feeling emotionally safe as well.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37683386039457|Darnall Charter|6|Findings reported: A total of 188 students in grades 3-8 participated in the Panorama Student Survey, a participation rate of 81.1%.    SURVEY FINDINGS:  Of the student respondents: • 54% stated they are extremely/quite excited to go to class.  • 49% stated they are extremely/quite excited to participate in class.  • 64% stated they are extremely/quite interested in their classes.  • 64% stated they are extremely/quite focused on the activities in their class.  The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the Panorama Survey to improve and expand its Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) of schoolwide support services, communication, support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to increase student participation rates for the Panorama Student Survey that will be administered three times in the 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
57726780000000|Davis Joint Unified|6|Students at Davis Joint Unified School District were surveyed in October 2018 about their perceptions of their schools in terms of Engagement, Academic Rigor, Instructional Methods, Relationships, and Culture. In addition, students provided feedback about 21st Century Skills. These results are detailed later in the report.  On an absolute basis, students at the typical Davis Joint Unified School District elementary school provided the highest ratings on Engagement and Relationships, while the lowest-rated topics were Culture and Academic Rigor.  Middle school provided the highest ratings on Academic Rigor and Culture, while the lowest-rated topics were Engagement and Relationships. High school students provided the highest ratings on Relationships and Academic Rigor, while the lowest-rated topics were College & Career Readiness and Engagement.  On a relative basis, Davis Joint Unified School District students gave more favorable feedback on: Relationships Belonging & Peer Collaboration Culture  Less favorable  feedback was in the areas of: Engagement Academic Rigor Instructional Methods College & Career Readiness  Noted is that our students who are not white, Asian, and gender non-conforming report less favorably in all areas. It's our belief and plan to work on generating high quality relationships, build capacity in leaders and teachers around equitable systems, and work with communities to design an educational system where these outcomes are not predictable, nor true.  This work is occurring in partnership with the National Equity Project and other partners in creating a Multi Tiered System of Support on every campus. Another key planning component to our work is in the redesign of our CTE pathways; this intention is to target those furthest from opportunity with courses that are engaging, relevant, and build college and career readiness.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647336016729|Dearborn Elementary Charter Academy|6|Data: Below indicates the 2018-2019 School Experience Survey results indicating student perception of school safety and student perception of school connectedness. 80% of students report feeling safe in the school. 77% of students report feeling safe in the neighborhood. 80% of students report feeling safe overall. 81% of students report that they feel a part of the school. 78% of students report they are happy to be at this school. 79% of students report that they feel accepted for who they are at this school. Safety: According to the data students feel more safe at the school then around the neighborhood.  In most cases the results indicated a much higher rating than the district average.  Some safety changes that have been made have positively impacted our scores.  Some changes have been to close campus exits much earlier after the dismissal bell, hold safety meetings with Los Angeles School Police and the District Attorney, and providing radios to all supervising personnel.  The Principal has also attended LAPD meetings to push for additional patrolling of the neighboring park.  In addition, we have purchased additional supervision aides to circulate play areas.  Monthly Teacher Aide meetings are held and different safety topics are addressed at each meeting.   Safety is an ongoing discussion and always made a priority.  Connectedness:  In an effort to improve our scores in School Connectedness we have provided additional resources and training.  Some changes have included: the purchase of a Psychiatric Social Worker, Staff and Faculty Professional Developing of Restorative Justice Practices and Brain Based Activities.  Teachers also now provide a social emotional check in area in their classrooms.   In addition the entire month of October is dedicated to a Kindness Campaign to build the cohesiveness of the students and decrease the amount of bullying reports.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
14632710000000|Death Valley Unified|6|Data: The key learnings are that students and parents find the schools safe and communication adequate. The key issue for parents is safety of home-to-school transportation, as busses travel up to 70 miles one way. Students welcome trips to different places and enjoy engaging in extracurricular activities. Surveys indicate that interscholastic competition is not as important as attending a professional soccer game or spending the night sleeping in an aquarium just inches from the fish. Of note is the desire of high school students to work in the different district funded jobs, ranging from museum docents to translators to elementary aides to groundskeepers.  Meaning: Results reveal parent/guardian concern that the schools maintain a positive and safe school environment and system of home-to-school transportation while each school year brings great changes to the student demographic. The biggest barrier is distance and a small number of students. For elementary students this doesn't seem to be an issue as classes are multi grade, while high school students do express a desire for a larger group of peers. Students do like what they see as a safe and predictable environment.  Use: Actions taken by the LEA reflect annual (at a minimum) changes in student need due to changes in enrollment. The main improvement is in assessing need with stronger input from parents/guardians, often individualized for their particular student need. The LEA is seeing positive results annually. The District is limited by the great distances between homes and school and by a small enrollment. No amount of change will address that reality. However, the approach to extracurricular activities employed by the principal and supported by the Board of Trustees does keep students engaged and looking forward to seeing a larger world. In addition, the lack of interscholastic sports means far fewer classes lost to hours spent on a game bus.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37680496119564|Dehesa Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
37680490000000|Dehesa Elementary|6|In spring 2018, Dehesa School administered the Healthy Kids survey to students in grades 6-8 in an effort to measure student connectedness to school, teachers, and peers; as well as feelings of physical and emotional safety at school. When asked whether or not students were happy at school, 100% of students polled reported being happy some of the time (80%) and most of the time (20%). 93% of student felt that the grown-ups at school cared about them; with 100% of the students feeling as though they were treated fairly at school some, most, or all of the time. 100% of students reported that either some, most, or all of the teachers and other grown-ups on campus make it clear that bullying is not allowed and 100% of students polled reported that if they were being bullied a teacher would do something to help them. In terms of perseverance through times of academic struggle, 100% of students reported completing class assignments when the work was hard either some, most, or all of the time. When asked if students kept working on schoolwork unit they got the right answer, 19% reported that they kept working some of the time, 50% reported that they kept working most of the time, and 31% reported that they kept working all of the time until they achieved the right answer. 69% of students reported that when they received a bad grade at school, they always tried harder next time and 25% stated that most of the time they tried harder next time. 100% of students also reported that teachers and other grown-ups at school believe that they can do a good job, either some, most, or all of the time.|2019-10-29|Dehesa will administer the California Healthy Kids Survey this year.|Met|2019
37680560000000|Del Mar Union Elementary|6|The Del Mar Union School District administered the DMUSD Student Wellness Survey (based on the CORE Survey) in the spring of 2019 to grades 4-6.  This administration provided baseline information in five areas.  An analysis of the survey's key indicators is as follows: (1) Social Awareness (High Performance) - Students indicate a belief they get along with others who are different from themselves, and they listen carefully to the viewpoints of others.  Some student responses indicated further support in describing their feelings.  (2) Self-Efficacy (Very High Performance) - Students have a strong belief in their ability to succeed in achieving an outcome or reaching a goal.  Students report they can meet the learning goals set by teachers, and many students believe they can master the hardest topics in their class.   (3) Growth Mindset (Very High Performance)- Student responses indicate their belief that their abilities can grow with effort, and they are capable of learning anything.    Some students may need reminding this applies to all subjects at school, even if they are not "naturally" good at the subject.  (4) Self Management (Very High Performance) - Student responses indicate they self regulate behaviors.  Students report coming to class prepared and getting their work done right away instead of waiting until the last minute.  (5) Culture and Climate (High Performance)-  Overall, students report positive experiences at their schools.  They experience support for academic learning via adults' encouragement to work hard and assistance with schoolwork when needed from teachers.  Students report they are happy to be at their schools and feel like they are part of the school community.  Some students may need assistance in establishing close relationships with the school.  Students report feeling safe at their school.  They report being treated fairly by adults,  and they understand expectations.  Each school site will be reviewing the baseline results of this survey and incorporating specific goals into school site plans for the 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
08100820000000|Del Norte County Office of Education|6|Based on the surveys completed, the students generally feel safe at school and have at least one adult they feel connected with at school. The students report they like the facility and feel that the staff cares about their education as well as their social and emotional needs.|2019-10-24|The COE will continue to focus on having students build relationships with caring adults. Staff will attend professional development sessions offered by instructional coaches focused on instructional strategies that include building clear expectations and using non-linguistic representation.  This year, the COE plans on distributing a more targeted (but broader reaching)  survey to get valuable information from stakeholders as to the extent to which they feel connected to school, and the reasons why or why not they feel that way. This should help us in learning more about the programs, services, and resources that we need to devote to building a culture of school connectedness.|Met|2019
08618200000000|Del Norte County Unified|6|The most recent CHKS (2017/18) conducted revealed some concerning information: This includes that only 15% of 7th graders; 9% of 9th graders; and 12% of 11th graders feel connected at school. Also, students that reported having a "Caring adult relationship" at school were 20% of 7th graders; 18% of 9th graders; and 30% of 11th graders. All of which are significantly below the state average. The district is using this data as the new three year LCAP is being introduced. It is also a priority consideration in the development of the district wide professional development plan.  During the 2018/19 school year, as part of the LCAP process the District surveyed parents, students, and staff. The results were as follows:  Of the 376 respondents- 79.3% were students; 12.5% were parents (non-employees); 4.1% were parents (District employee); 1.6% were District staff (non-parent); 1.9% were community members (non-parent); and 0.3% were past educator/advocates. 173 agreed or strongly agreed that students felt safe and were connected (45.9%); 121 were not sure or had no opinion (32.1%). 82 disagreed or strongly disagreed that students felt safe and were connected (21.8%).|2019-10-24|In 2018/2019,  the District facilitated a Climate Survey to correspond with the LCAP input process. This survey addressed the issues of safety and connectedness from the perspective of parents, students, and staff. The survey had 376 respondents- 79.3% were students; 12.5% were parents (non-employees); 4.1% were parents (District employee); 1.6% were District staff (non-parent); 1.9% were community members (non-parent); and 0.3% were past educator/advocates. Results showed that 173 agreed or strongly agreed that students felt safe and were connected (45.9%); 121 were not sure or had no opinion (32.1%) 82 disagreed or strongly disagreed that students felt safe and were connected (21.8%).  This year, the District plans on distributing a more targeted (but broader reaching)  survey to get valuable information from stakeholders as to the extent to which they feel connected to school, and the reasons why or why not they feel that way. This should help us in learning more about the programs, services, and resources that we need to devote to building a culture of school connectedness.   Data from past years has led to our long-term commitment to funding Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS), Multiple-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) and Universal Design for Learning (UDL).|Met|2019
15634046009369|Del Vista Math and Science Academy|6|Del Vista Math & Science Academy works as a TEAM to build a positive school climate. The principal greets students consistently every morning with positive comments. Teachers have created positive engaging classroom environments. Our support staff (coaches, nurse, custodians, food service staff, etc.) also make students feel valued. Student and school accomplishments are celebrated via announcements. A Trauma-Informed Schools training has provided our school team a different perspective on understanding our Tier 2 and 3 students. The purposeful work placed on school climate has positively impacted school attendance, which as been consistently above 97%. Activities are put into place throughout the year to build a positive environment. Some of the climate building activities include: Expectations Assemblies, Red Ribbon Week, celebrations of different cultures throughout the year (Larry Itliong and Cesar Chavez Days), Antibullying Delano Police Officers versus students basketball game, and Morris Brothers Antibullying Assembly.   Previously, Mathematical Growth Mindset professional development was provided to teachers. Students and teachers are  embracing the power of mistakes and struggles; understanding that questions are really important, know that everyone can learn math to the highest levels; understanding that math is about connections and communicating; understanding that math is about creativity and making sense; understanding math class is about learning not performing and know that depth is more important than speed. This change in thinking has provided a positive climate during math instruction.   School events that have promoted positive school culture are: International Observe the Moon, Star Gazing Party, Parent/Teacher conferences, Back to School Nights,  Kindergarten Orientation and Folklorico dance group performance.   SBAC Goal setting conferences for third through fifth grade students were held last year. As a follow-up, this year students were acknowledged and celebrated for having met or exceeded their SBAC goals. Positive phone calls were made to parents to recognize student success.   Teacher collaboration time has been provided to also encourage a positive school climate.   Del Vista Math & Science Academy is an inclusive, warm and caring environment that promotes learning.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
15634120000000|Delano Joint Union High|6|A local climate survey was administered in September of 2019 to 3283 students, 862 parents, and 139 teachers.   The results of this survey indicate that 88.4% of students, 98.4% of parents, and 94.2% of teachers have a sense of school safety.  This survey also reflects that 99% of the students, 99.8% of the parents, and 98.6% of the teachers feel connected to their school. The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the spring 2018 to 1944 ninth and eleventh grade students. Based on this survey, 93% of the students surveyed feel safe at school and 90% feel connected to their school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
15634040000000|Delano Union Elementary|6|Delano Union Elementary School District has made significant progress in the area of School Climate in recent years. We believe that the most valid measures of this progress are the PBIS Self-Assessment Survey and the PBIS School Climate Survey. This survey is given to all elementary school students in grades 3-5 as well as all middle school students in grades 6-8. In this survey,  elementary students indicated through an average score of 3.79 out of 4.0 that “my school wants me to do well” and an average score of 3.59 out of 4.0 indicating that my “teachers treat me with respect.” Middle school students had similar results with 3.5 indicating that my “teachers treat me with respect” and 3.0 out of 4.0 indicating that “school is a place at which I feel safe.”  These surveys are administered twice per year, and following the completion of the survey, district and site teams review results. We use these results to design professional development for staff as well as provide outreach for students and parents.    District schools are making a concerted effort to create an environment where students feel valued and respected. According to our most recent administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey (2017), 88% of our students indicated that they feel a high level of school connectedness as compared to 72% in 2015.  In the 2019 LCAP Survey, 93.6% of parents indicate that their child feels safe at school; 96.6% indicate that their students are taught behavior expectations; 97.1% believe that the district provides a safe and secure learning environment; and 95.9% believe that there are activities within the district that support and promote student behavior and attendance.|2019-10-14|We are a district that’s at 84% socioeconomically disadvantaged.  However, with a percentage that high, we still have one of  the lowest chronic absentee rates at less than 3%.  That is due largely to our intentionality of our attention to creating a safe and positive culture for students.  For the last several years, we have seen tremendous growth as we have surveyed our staff, community, and students through our MTSS/PBIS model. There is a fully functioning MTSS team at all 12 of our school sites.  The members represent all areas of the campus/community including teachers, classified staff(i.e., custodians, cafeteria workers, etc.) parents, school psychologist, school social workers, and site administration.  There even students on some teams.  Within those team meetings, the focus is largely on safety, culture, connectivity, environment, and learning for all students and for all staff.  Using the tools of our MTSS process, we are continually assessing our systems and looking at barriers that might prevent a child from being successful in school and asking the question, “Now, what are we going to do about it?” At our middle school sites, we have social workers that have been hired to help address the Tier II behavior and social emotional issues to help remove barriers to students learning and thriving in their school environment. Our District received a grant for our MTSS Site Teams for continual training as we move through our process.|Met|2019
24753660000000|Delhi Unified|6|A local school climate survey was administered to students in grades five and seven through twelve.  The data reveals that 64% of our students in grades 5, 7, and 11 feel safe at school.  By gender, 60% of the males who were surveyed feel that their school is safe, as compared to 50% of the females.  By ethnicity, 55% of Hispanic/Latino students feel that their school is safe, as compared to 85% of all white students.  In regards to connectedness, data show that 59% of the students feel connected to their respective school.  Eighty-three percent of all males surveyed responded feeling connected to their school, while 79% of all females feel connected.  By ethnicity, 56% of all Hispanic/Latino students feel connected to their school, as compared to 60% of all white students.   In addition, it was noticed that 28% of our students experience chronic sadness or hopelessness.  By gender, 35% of all males surveyed feel chronic sadness or hopelessness, as compared to 47% of all females surveyed.  By ethnicity, 37% of all Hispanic/Latino students feel chronic sadness or hopelessness as compared to 38% of all white students.  Twenty-five percent of our students experience harassment or bullying.  By gender, 17% of all males who were surveyed experience harassment or bullying, as compared to 30% of all females surveyed.  By ethnicity, 25% of the Hispanic/Latino students and 25% of all white students responded that they experience harassment or bullying.  Based on this information, we have learned that most of our students feel safe.  However, actions are needed to address those students who currently feel unsafe, sad, or bullied.  Furthermore, although the percentages of chronic sadness and harassment/bullying are relatively low, these numbers are concerning considering our demographics and school size.  It is evident that the district must implement additional supports and interventions to address the issues of chronic sadness and harassment/bullying.  After reviewing the data from 2016-2019 it is evident that students’ feelings about school safety and connectedness to their school have slightly improved between these years.  Although, 64% of all students perceive their school as a safe environment, students reported issues of harassment/bullying and feelings of chronic sadness.  In order to continuously improve the students’ feelings toward school safety and connectedness to their school, the district has begun professional development and facility improvements.  All district employees have participated in suicide prevention training and emergency preparedness exercises.  In addition, all teachers have participated in Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) workshops.   Elementary students participate in i-Matter Social Skills Training and Bullying Prevention co-facilitated by mental health clinicians and school support counselors.|2019-11-12|Middle and high school students have the opportunity to participate in the Youth2Youth peer mentoring program.  The district has implemented programs which offer students positive activities, including clubs, tutoring, exercise, and dance.   In order to ensure safety across the district, a new intercom/alarm system is currently being installed.  In addition, the district employees three (3) full time equivalent service officers who patrol the campuses and monitor student safety. This is in addition to site-based security staff already in place.|Met|2019
47702270000000|Delphic Elementary|6|Based on the Healthy Kids Survey from 2018, 24% of 7th grade students in Siskiyou County reported they felt connectedness to their school. Because Delphic is so small, a site report of the CHKS was not generated. However, a local school implemented survey showed that over 80% of students at Delphic felt connectedness to their school.   Based on the Healthy Kids Survey from 2018, 70% of 7th grade students in Siskiyou County reported they felt safe at school. Because Delphic is so small, a site report of the CHKS was not generated. However, a local school implemented survey showed that 100% of students at Delphic felt safe school.|2019-09-25||Met|2019
39686270132050|Delta Bridges Charter|6|Delta Bridges K-8 Charter School Climate Responses                   During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 56 students in grades 1-5 and 50 students in grades 6-8 who responded.    Results from the Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   81% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   68% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   74% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   76% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   60% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   59% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.   Summary of Key Indicators:   Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.                 With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed differences in student perceptions from previous year data.   With our review of narrative comments from the Students Survey, the data revealed that 26 of the 58 written response shared students thinking positively of Delta Bridges School.  Areas identified as desired improvements by the students for Delta Bridges Charter School included the dislike of the school lunch, and the dislike of school uniforms. Additionally, six responses expressed a concern about bullying at school.    The school is working on addressing the student concerns and celebrating their successes.  The implementation of a campus wide positive behavioral support system (PBIS) is starting to show improvements with many of their concerns.  The Bridges Staff is committed to improving the success of Delta Bridges Charter School.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
39686276119309|Delta Charter|6|Delta Charter K-12 School Climate Responses                   During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 86 students in grades 1-5, 134 students in grades 6-8, and 291 students in grades 9-12 who responded.   There was an increase of 126 students from grades 1-12 who took the Student Climate Survey from the previous year.    Results from Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   79% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   64% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   73% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   70% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   77% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   59% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.  Summary of Key Indicators:  Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.                 With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed:  • Students Agree and Strongly Agree of felling connected at school. o Overall K-12 results showed 79% agreement. o 9-12 group results showed 74% agreement.   o K-8 group results showed 86 % agreement. • Students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.  o Overall K-12 results showed 77% of  o 9-12 group results showed 75% agreement.  o  K-8 group results showed 79% agreement. • Students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.  o Overall K-12 results showed 59% agreement.  o Grades 9-12 results showed 59% agreement.  o Grades K-8 results showed 86% agreement.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
44698234430187|Delta Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
39686270136135|Delta Charter Online|6|Delta Charter Online School Climate Responses                   During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 47 students who responded.     Results from Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   90% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   85% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   93% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   94% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   89% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   96% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.  Summary of Key Indicators:  Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.                 With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed a significant increase (+36) in student participation from previous year data.   With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed an increase in favorable responses of Strongly Agree and Agree of each of the five categories.  Additional narrative comments were summarized below:  • Delta Charter Online students express they are proud of their school and love attending DCO. • Students express they like doing online classes and feel they are successful with working independently  • Students feel they need little guidance due to the curriculum pacing guide.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
34674130114660|Delta Elementary Charter|6|Kindergarten – 2nd Grade  My School: • 95+% of students: 1. Feel safe at school 2. Believes DECS practices emergency procedures 3. Feel most of the students are well behaved 4. Believe DECS teaches them to respect others 5. Want to return to DECS next school year • 90%+ of students: 1. Believe their school is clean My Classroom: • 95+% of students: 2. Feel there are lots of books and other supplies in their classrooms 3. Confirm that students in their class work well in groups 4. Believe parents and other grown-ups help in their classrooms Teacher and Principal Effectiveness: • 95+% of students: 1. Feel their teacher cares about them 2. Believe their teacher expects them to do their best 3. Feel they can talk to their teacher when they have a problem 4. Know what they are supposed to learn in class 5. Feel they are learning a lot in class 6. Feel their teacher is fair to all students  7. Feel the principal cares about them  3rd Grade – 6th Grade My School: • 95%+ of students: 1. Feel their principal cares about them 2. Feel safe at school  • 90+% of students: 1. Feel their principal is approachable, friendly and respectful 2. Believe she is fair when determining consequences for negative behavior 1. Would recommend DECS to a friend or someone else • 85%+ of students: 1. Feel DECS treats everyone fairly 2. Feel they can talk to their principal when they have a problem Teacher Effectiveness: • 95%+ of students: 1. Feel their teacher expects them to do their best 2. Feel their teacher explains ideas clearly (9% increase)  3. Feel their teacher shows respect to all students in their class (5% satisfaction increase) 4. Feel they can talk to their teacher when they have a problem (5% increase)   • 90%+ of students: 1. Feel their teacher is fair about rewards and consequences 2. Know how they are doing in class 3. Feel comfortable meeting with their teacher for extra help  • 85%+ of students: 5. Report their teacher asks them to answer questions in class 6. I have opportunities to talk and work with my classmates Academic Program: • 95%+ of students: 1. Understand what their learning objectives are in class 2. Know what to do to reach their learning objectives 3. Believe what they learn prepares them for the next grade  • 90%+ of students: 1. Know what they are supposed to learn and why it is important   • 85%+ of students: 1. Believe what they learn in school prepares them for college or a career  2. Feel there are enough materials in their class for every student 3. Report their teacher incorporates project-based activities into learning|2019-10-07||Met|2019
39686270129890|Delta Home Charter|6|During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 28 students in grades 1-5 and 40 students in grades 6-8 who responded.    Results from Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   93% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   84% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   91% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   85% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   83% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   90% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition  Summary of Key Indicators:  Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.                 With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed an increase in favorable responses of Strongly Agree and Agree of each of the five categories.  Additional narrative comments were summarized below: • Students are proud of their school • Students feel like they are cared for and supported • Students feel accepted amongst their peers • Students express that their school provides a good learning environment • Overall, students state that they love their school.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
39686270136028|Delta Keys Charter|6|Delta Keys School Climate Responses                   During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 61 students who responded.     Results from Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   91% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   82% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   88% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   90% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   91% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   96% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.  Summary of Key Indicators:  Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.  One of Delta Keys School’s ongoing areas of focus is to involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe.  The school is committed to providing opportunities to engage parents and other stakeholders to solicit feedback and use their feedback in the decision-making processes the school has in place.  Included in the school’s yearly calendar of events, several programs and events are offered for opportunities to engage with parents and other stakeholders to learn how the school is performing.  Events such as Open House, Career Fair, academic events, School Board Meetings, and ILP meetings are just to name a few.  With our review of annual data from the Parent/Community Stakeholder Survey, the number of respondents was too small to report.  Areas of Identified Need or Desired Improvements for Delta Keys School were solicited through individual parent meetings throughout the year.  A few areas identified included increased progress monitoring and reporting with families, increased communication from school to home, and additional opportunities for students to socialize in person or through virtual gatherings.  As the school is working on expanding their reach to parents and other stakeholders, a question on the survey asked which social media option is primarily used to stay connected to school.  The survey did not have enough respondents and were too few to report.  This information will help to refine our Communication Plan and continue to increase our involvement with parents and other stakeholders.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
50710685030267|Denair Charter Academy|6|Students at DCA participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year. In the 2019 administration of CHKS: *86% of respondents perceive DCA as safe or very safe.  *9% of respondents report that they have been bullied or harassed in the last 12 months.  These results affirm that a large majority of our students feel safe at school, however we cannot be satisfied until all of our students indicate that they feel safe.  Additionally, 91% of respondents think the adults at school have high expectations of them and 85% said there are caring adults at school.   The results of the CHKS also confirm some things we know about the struggles of students in our school and community:  * 18% of our middle and high school students admit to current drug or alcohol use.  * 16% of high school students said they have considered suicide. * 26% of middle school students said they have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness in the last 12 months.  We have recently partnered with community-based mental health organizations to provide additional support, guidance, and resources for all students and families in Denair. In addition, we have implemented a number of social-emotional programs to support individual mental health and a positive school culture. We are currently monitoring these new programs to measure their effectiveness over time.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
50710680132662|Denair Elementary Charter Academy|6|Fifth grade students at DECA participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year. In the 2019 administration of CHKS: *77% of respondents perceive DCA as safe or very safe.  *81% of respondents report that the school has an anti-bullying climate  These results affirm that a large majority of our students feel safe at school, however we cannot be satisfied until all of our students indicate that they feel safe.  Additionally, 89% of respondents think the adults at school have high expectations of them and 67% said there are caring adults at school.   The results of the CHKS also confirm some things we know about the struggles of students in our school and community:  * 11% of respondents admit to current drug or alcohol use.  * 11% of respondents said they have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness in the last 12 months.  We have recently partnered with community-based mental health organizations to provide additional support, guidance, and resources for all students and families in Denair. In addition, we have implemented a number of social-emotional programs to support individual mental health and a positive school culture. We are currently monitoring these new programs to measure their effectiveness over time.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
50710680000000|Denair Unified|6|Students in Denair schools participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year. In the 2019 administration of CHKS: *72% of respondents perceive Denair schools as safe or very safe.  *24% of respondents report that they have been bullied or harassed in the last 12 months.  These results affirm that a large majority of our students feel safe at school, however we cannot be satisfied until all of our students indicate that they feel safe.  Additionally, 78% of respondents think the adults at school have high expectations of them and 67% said there are caring adults at school. Both of these are significant increases from the 2017 administration of CHKS, which we attribute to stabilization of leadership and staff at our schools after a period of high turnover.  The results of the CHKS also confirm some things we know about the struggles of students in our district and community:  * 9% of middle school students and 20% of high school students admit to current drug or alcohol use.  * 17% of high school students said they have considered suicide (a decrease of 6% from the 2017 administration of CHKS). * 27% of middle school students said they have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness in the last 12 months  (an increase of 4% from the 2017 administration of CHKS).   We have recently partnered with community-based mental health organizations to provide additional support, guidance, and resources for all students and families in Denair. In addition, we have implemented a number of social-emotional programs to support individual mental health and a positive school culture. We are currently monitoring these new programs to measure their effectiveness over time.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
33670410000000|Desert Center Unified|6|Since our enrollment is very limited, the LEA does not administer the Healthy Kids Survey due to privacy issues. The LEA does do a parent, student and staff survey annually. The results are reviewed at School Site Council Meeting and a staff meeting. If there are any areas noted, the staff looks to opportunities that may be available in order to address any issue that may arise. The survey results show that the parents are very happy with the school and they feel their children are safe at our school with caring adults. The students like our school and feel safe. The staff rated the school highly and enjoy the school climate.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19642461996537|Desert Sands Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  97% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  97% reported that they felt connected to the school *  96% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
33670580000000|Desert Sands Unified|6|Key Learnings Elementary School: • Overall, elementary students’ favorable responses increased (from 2017-18) in the areas of climate of support for academic learning and knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules and norms. Favorable responses declined in the areas of safety and sense of belonging/school connectedness. Of most concern, students indicated a 25% decline in the feeling close to people at school.  Key Learnings Middle School: • Overall, middle school students’ favorable responses stayed the same or declined in all areas as compared to results from the 2017-18 school year. Of most concern, students sense of safety declined by 10%. In addition, detailed responses indicate a 12% decline in the percentage of teachers that go out of their way to help students.  Key Learnings High School: • Overall, high school students’ favorable responses declined in all areas as compared to results from the 2017-18 school year. Of most concern, students sense of safety declined by 5%, although fewer students indicated incidents of fear of being beaten up, spread of rumors, and students stealing or damaging belongings.  Response to Key Learnings • Desert Sands will continue to support students and school with the implementation of a multi—tiered system of support to best support students in areas of academics and social emotional learning.  • School leaders and teachers will continue to reflect on student responses at their school, and work with appropriate personnel to make adjustments as needed.|2019-10-15|In addition to the data above, more than forty-three thousand (sixteen thousand in 2018-19) free responses were reported. The data was used to compile a list of strengths and opportunities for growth for each survey topic, based on student responses. DSUSD analyzed the responses and noted areas of strength and opportunities for growth regarding Climate of Support for Academic Learning, Safety, Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms, and Sense of Belonging/School Connectedness. Key learnings are noted above.|Met|2019
36103636111918|Desert Trails Preparatory Academy|6|On September 24, 2019, a school climate survey was conducted by scholars in both 5th and 7th grade.   Elementary Climate Survey – Grade 5   (N: Never; S: Sometimes; O: Often; A: Always) I like school. N:11%; S:33%; O:36%; A:25% I feel like I do well in school. N:3%;  S:33%; O:25%; A:33% My school wants me to do well. N:0%; S:6%; O:8%; A:86% My school has clear rules for behavior. N:8%; S:3%; O:19%; A:50% Teacher treat me with respect. N:3%; S:6%; O:25%; A:61% Good behavior is noticed at my school.  N:8%; S:25%; O:19%; A:44% I get along with other students.  N:11%; S:11%; O:28%; A:47% I feel safe at school.  N:11%; S:36%; O:31%; A:31% Students treat each other well.  N:11%; S:31%; O:36%; A:25% There is an adult at my school who will help me if I need it.  N:3%; S:19%; O:6%; A:69% Students in my class behave so that teachers can teach. N:6%; S:53%; O:33%; A:6%  Middle/High School Climate Survey – Grade 7 (StlyD: Strongly disagree; SWD:Somewhat disagree; SWA: Somewhat agree; StlyD: Strongly agree) I like school.  StlyD: 20%; SWD: 20%; SWA: 57%; StlyD: 3% I feel successful in school. StlyD: 9%; SWD: 20%; SWA: 60%; StlyD: 14% I feel my school has high standards for achievement. StlyD: 11%; SWD: 17%; SWA: 54%; StlyD: 17% My school sets clear rules for behavior. StlyD: 6%; SWD: 9%; SWA: 43%; StlyD: 43% Teachers treat me with respect. StlyD: 9%; SWD: 0%; SWA: 37%; StlyD: 57% The behaviors in my class allow the teachers to teach. StlyD: 3%; SWD: 23%; SWA: 57%; StlyD: 9% Students are frequently recognized for good behavior.  StlyD: 14%; SWD: 26%; SWA: 54%; StlyD: 6% School is a place at which I feel safe.  StlyD: 14%; SWD: 34%; SWA: 37%; StlyD: 14% I know an adult at school that I can talk with if I need help.  StlyD: 23%; SWD: 14%; SWA: 23%; StlyD: 40% The data from the school climate surveys show that majority of our scholars in this grade level are positive about DTPA.  As a positive from these findings is that scholars at DTPA are treated by respectful teachers who want what’s best for the scholars they serve.  Our teachers practice developing a growth mindset and positive reinforcement.  This is making the difference in the education of the scholars we serve.  And though our scholars work hard to do well, the results of the survey show that they would like further recognition for these achievements. Thus, DTPA utilizes PBIS to provide incentives and praise for positive behavior and academics.   Though 40% of our 7th grade scholars believe that there is an adult at school that they can talk with for help, a significant number of scholars do not agree.  Therefore, DTPA will continue to make improvements and adjustments.  In the 2018-2019 school, an additional counselor was hired in order to provide additional counseling services so that scholars have staff members on campus to talk to and support their socio-emotional needs.  For the 2019-2020 school year, a new behavior interventionist and special education teacher were hired.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
41690470129759|Design Tech High|6||||Not Met|2019
15634200000000|Di Giorgio Elementary|6|83% of fifth grade students agree/strongly agree that they are treated with respect; 73% of fifth grade students agree/strongly agree that they are that they feel safe at school; 92% of fifth grade students agree/strongly agree that they their teachers want them to do their best at school; 75% of fifth grade students agree/strongly agree that they feel proud to belong to their school; 83% of fifth grade students agree/strongly agree that the school rules are fair. These results tell us that the majority of students feel safe at school and that they believe they are cared for at school. The majority of students feel respected at school. There are still a number of students who do not feel safe or respected and it is our challenge to seek out these students and discover what is happening at school that is causing their ill feelings. We are in the third year of implementing a new PBIS system and believe this will improve our school climate.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
44697994430245|Diamond Technology Institute|6|According to the 2018 Youth Truth Survey the following are the key indicators of school climate and culture: Culture: Overall, DTI students rate their overall school culture higher than students do at other participating schools.  On a relative basis, DTI students agree more strongly with the following statement(s): Most students in this school treat adults with respect Most adults in this school treat students with respect Most students in this school want to do well in class Discipline in this school is fair  Relationships: Overall, DTI students rate their relationships higher than students do at other participating schools.  On a relative basis, DTI students agree more strongly with the following statement(s): • How many of your teachers try to be fair? • Many of my teachers believe I can get a good grade if I try • Many of my teachers are not just satisfied if I pass, they care if students are really learning • Many of my teachers make an effort to understand what my life is like outside of school DTI students agree to a similar degree with the following statement(s): • Many of my teachers are willing to give extra help on school work if I need it DTI students agree less strongly with the following statement(s): • Many of my teachers connect what students are learning in class to life outside of the classroom  Engagement: Overall, DTI students rate their level of engagement as highly as students do at other participating schools.  On a relative basis, DTI students agree more strongly with the following statement(s): • I enjoy coming to school most of the time DTI students agree to a similar degree with the following statement(s): • I try to do my best in school • My teachers' expectations make me want to do my best • What I learn in class helps me outside of school DTI students agree less strongly with the following statement(s): • I take pride in my school work The percentage of DTI students who report having considered dropping out of school is 28%. This is higher than the percentage at other participating schools. College and Career: Overall, DTI students rate their college and career readiness higher than students do at other participating schools.  On a relative basis, DTI students agree more strongly with the following statement(s): • My school has helped me develop the skills and knowledge I will need for college level classes • My school has helped me understand the steps I need to take in order to apply to college • My school has helped me figure out which careers match my interests and abilities • My school has helped me understand the steps I need to take in order to have the career that I want The percentage of DTI students who want to go to college is 74%. This is lower than the percentage at other participating schools.  The most frequently used college and career readiness services at DTI are college entrance exam prep, used by 58% of students, and counseling about future career possibilities, used by 52% of students.|2019-10-28|The data for Priority 6 was taken from our Youth Truth Survey 2018. This is the first year this survey was distributed and we will be comparing 2018 results with this year's 2019 results once they are in. School Safety:   Overall, DTI students rate they feel safer at school than in their own neighborhoods. On a relative basis, DTI students agree more strongly with the following statement(s): • In my school, there are clear rules against hurting other people • Adults at my school try to stop bullying and harassment • I feel safe from harm while at school in general From the key indicators results, Students tend to feel a sense of connectedness and positive relationships from adults on campus. The percentage of students who feel safe on campus is also fairly high. The area of thinking about dropping out and taking pride in schoolwork is lower than expected. Also in the area of harassment/bullying or rumors and lies being told is higher than expected. Because of these results, and in conjunction with PVUSD, Diamond Tech continues to promote character education, the anti-bullying campaign, "Be a kinder, more empathetic you.", and has also increased the school counselor position to better support student’s socio-emotional needs.|Met|2019
37680490136614|Diego Hills Central Public Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  95% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  94% reported that they felt connected to the school *  92% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37681630137109|Diego Valley East Public Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  Over 90% of the students reported that they felt safe at school. *  Over 90% reported that they felt connected to the school. *  Over 90% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program. This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37103710137752|Dimensions Collaborative|6|Dimensions Collaborative School annually measures the school climate of students and their perception on programs, events, and activities. Results from the student survey are compiled and shared with all stakeholders including the local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. Communication has consistently been raised as an area for growth, thus the school has implemented the use of Parent Square to establish direct communication with parents, instead of expecting staff to forward information along in a timely manner. Additionally, the school has opened up a parent portal on the website to give parents access to school documents (handbooks, logs, sample curriculum, etc.). Developing a parent portal to the Student Information System is in the works to allow parents to have online real time access to State CAASPP Score Reports, report cards, and more.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
54755310000000|Dinuba Unified|6|Each year Dinuba Unified staff and Board of Trustees meets with students from throughout the district in a Student Voices Forum to hear their thoughts and opinions on school climate, school safety and other relevant topics.  DUSD did not administer the California Healthy Kids Survey last year.  It will be administered in the spring of 2020.  During the Student Voices Forum, students overwhelming report that Dinuba Unified’s schools are clean, well-kept and that students feel safe.  Students report that they are proud of their schools and that administration and all other school staff support them and their success.   Students feel that district and school rules are fair and well communicated to everyone.  Students also feel that students are treated fairly and that students who choose to break rules are dealt with in a timely and fair manner.  Students feel comfortable reporting incidents of bullying, both in person and through the anonymous tip line.  Dinuba Unified will be implementing the Sandy Hook Promise, Say Something, throughout the district to help educate all students about the importance of reporting possible threats or acts of violence.   The results of these discussions during our Student Voice Forums have generated discussion about how to more closely monitor school climate in order to set school and district goals and have measurement tools designed to provide safe, consistent and secure learning environments.|2019-10-24|Dinuba Unified is addressing school climate by providing students with clean, well kept campuses as well as by providing co-curricular and extra-curricular activities that help to motivate students to do well academically.  After school sports programs are offered in grades 6-12 to all students.  Participation is encouraged and students grades are monitored to make sure they are in good academic standing.  Being a "Student Athlete" is Dinuba's goal - being a student 1st, then athlete.|Met|2019
37680236111322|Discovery Charter|6|Spring 2019 Hanover Survey Data reveals overall high satisfaction with the school from its various stakeholders (certificated staff, classified staff, parents and families, and students).  In addition, the school administered multiple anonymous surveys throughout the academic year.  The majority of these surveys were taken online around the implementation of the school's LCAP goals and the school's culture and climate.  Again, the results of these surveys revealed overall high satisfaction with the school.  The following are suggestions from consultation and input from parents, staff, students, and other community members that are included in the 2019-2020 LCAP Plan:  - Data from these surveys revealed that not many changes are needed as evidenced by the school's most recent Spring 2019 climate surveys.  94.41% of parents felt that parents and guardians are valued, equal partners in their child’s education at Discovery, an increase from 89.7% who agreed with this statement in 2018's Spring survey. - Continue to offer interventions and support for target groups, such as the school's English Learners, Students with Disabilities, Foster Youth, and Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Students - Increase language learner supports for both English Learners and Spanish Learners through the use of targeted interventions before, during, and after the school day - Continue to enhance the enriching experiences for students through the Engineering Lab and the Art Studio - Continue to support social-emotional learning through the use of school-wide PBIS, Sanford-Harmony social-emotional learning resources, and other services - Improve resources for creating a more positive school climate and culture, such as the use of ADL No Place for Hate and Sandy Hook Promise resources (anti-bias and anti-bullying resources) - Relieving obstacles to getting to parent meetings/trainings. Some parent presentations will be offered in both AM and PM, and dinner will be provided in addition to childcare and translation services. - Staff input was collected as well during a certificated and classified staff meeting.  Staff had the opportunity to rank priorities for the school’s programs, including many of the actions and services covered by the LCAP.  Because there were more behavior concerns in 2018-2019, many certificated and classified staff inquired about more behavior and SEL supports as well.  This explains the emphasis in this year's plan to support additional behavior and SEL supports for all stakeholders.|2019-10-24|Discovery has made huge strides towards improving the school’s culture and climate in recent months.  Since the start of the 2019-2020 school year, all Kindergarten through sixth grade classrooms are required to implement the Sanford-Harmony social-emotional learning curriculum for 15 minutes each day for four days a week.  In addition, the middle school has instituted community huddles and restorative circles.  It is also training both staff and students on the resources from the Anti-Defamation League’s No Place for Hate curriculum and Sandy Hook Promise resource.  The intent is to cultivate student leaders and create safe and welcoming classrooms that advocate and promote diversity, inclusion, and positive social interaction.  The school’s new Core Values and Common Courtesies program has been infused throughout the academic day so that students transfer these social skills and values into their everyday interactions, both in and out of the school day.  The first day of each quarter, school staff enthusiastically greets students as they enter the campus through Welcome Tunnels.|Met|2019
39754996118665|Discovery Charter|6|The results of the February parent survey indicated a very satisfied rating for the curriculum and the standards for student behavior.  The parents explained they were  not pleased with the turn over of teachers in math. They also felt there needed to be more communication and opportunities for input in decision making.  They felt there was a decline in the culture and spirit of the school among the students.|2019-10-14|The school took the information from the survey and began to identify critical needs to be addressed in the next school plan.  Goals were set up to address the needs identified from the survey.  The action plan was adopted in May for this school year.|Met|2019
43104390111880|Discovery Charter|6|On October 30, 2017, Discovery deployed its annual survey of students in grades 4th through 8th grades by asking three questions: Is Discovery a welcoming community? Within the Discovery community, do you feel physically and emotionally safe? Discovery is an inclusive community that celebrates ethnic and religious diversity. And finally, Discovery is an inclusive community that makes students with learning differences feel valued and safe. The answer choices were: Always, Most of the time, Sometimes and Seldom. 66% of students in grades 4th through 8th responded to the survey. In response to the question: Is Discovery a welcoming community? Always- 32% Most of the time-51%  Sometimes-12% Seldom-5%  From Spring 2017 Always- 42% Most of the time-51%  Sometimes-4%  Seldom-3%  In response to the question: Within the Discovery community, do you feel physically and emotionally safe? Always-16% Most of the time-69%  Sometimes-8%  Seldom-7%  From Spring 2017 Always-32% Most of the time-50%  Sometimes-16% Seldom-2% As a result of this survey question we have increased our Bulling Prevention Classes and our counselor has been outside during recess and lunch times for the first month of school. A staff member trained and continues to mentor yard duty parent volunteers to be present and engaged. Discovery is an inclusive community that celebrates ethnic and religious diversity. Always-38% Most of the time-45%  Sometimes-12%  Seldom-5% From Spring 2017 Always-44% Most of the time-38%  Sometimes-16%  Seldom-2%  A Cultural Diversity task force made up of teachers and was created at the start of the 2017school year. Community Events promoted as DCS Celebrates Cultural Diversity has been well received. Task Force suggest reading material and other resources to be used in classrooms. Discovery is an inclusive community that makes students with learning differences feel valued and safe. Always-42% Most of the time-28%  Sometimes-23%  Seldom-7%   Discovery Charter Schools will send out its annual survey on November 18, 2019.|2019-10-30|Discovery Charter Schools will send out its annual survey on Novemer 18, 2019.|Met|2019
43104390127969|Discovery Charter II|6|On 10/30/17, Discovery did the annual survey of students in grades 4th through 8th grades by asking three questions: Is Discovery a welcoming community? Within the Discovery community, do you feel physically and emotionally safe? Discovery is an inclusive community that celebrates ethnic and religious diversity. And finally, Discovery is an inclusive community that makes students with learning differences feel valued and safe. The answer choices were: Always, Most of the time, Sometimes and Seldom. 53% of students in grades 4th through 8th responded to the survey.  In response to the question: Is Discovery a welcoming community? Always- 47% Most of the time-45%  Sometimes-8%  Seldom-0%  Spring 2017 Always- 42% Most of the time-49%  Sometimes-6%  Seldom-3%  Within the Discovery community, do you feel physically and emotionally safe? Always-43% Most of the time-47%  Sometimes-9%  Seldom-1%  Spring 2017 Always-32% Most of the time-45%  Sometimes-21% Seldom-2% **12% moved from “Sometimes” to “Most of the time or Always”; Students cited an increase in parent yard duty during recess and lunch, that were better trained. Discovery is an inclusive community that celebrates ethnic and religious diversity. Always-53% Most of the time-28%  Sometimes-13% Seldom-6%  Spring 2017 Always-42% Most of the time-40%  Sometimes 16%  Seldom-2%  Discovery is an inclusive community that makes students with learning differences feel valued and safe. Always-56% Most of the time-36%  Sometimes-6%  Seldom-2%|2019-10-30|Discovery Charter Schools will send out its annual survey on Novemer 18, 2019.|Met|2019
19647330115253|Discovery Charter Preparatory #2|6|Surveys were given in the fall of 2018 to students to assess the success of the school in a variety of categories including; knowledge of the school’s SLOs and expectations, effectiveness of the teachers’ curriculum, and perception of campus safety. Overall, survey results remained positive across the board; however, it is the LEA’s goal to administer surveys twice a year to monitor progress in several areas.   Key findings of the survey are as follows:    45.3% strongly agree and 20.1% agree that they felt safe on school grounds. 33.8 strongly agree and 21.6% agree that their counselor is available to answer questions 38.1% strongly agree and 18.7% agree the office staff is available to answer questions and provide support as needed.  37.4% strongly agree and 14.4% agree teachers are available to answer questions and provide support as needed 34.5% strongly agree and 32.4% agree discipline is administered in an effective and consistent manner. 35.3% strongly agree and 23.7% agree the Discovery Prep staff demonstrates caring and concern for students in an environment that honors individual differences. 35.3% strongly agree and 18% agree there is at least one adult on campus that I can go to if I have a problem or a concern.  Strengths:  The LEA’s positive environment is one of its greatest assets. Students feel supported through the relationships they develop with the staff, as well as by their individual Advisors. Through the Advisory program, students learn study skills, participate in college preparatory activities, and most importantly, cultivate a relationship of trust and consistency with an adult who can help mentor them. Advisors and teachers monitor student performance carefully and become a teacher advocate for when students have issues whether they are social or academic. In order to help foster our SLO goals, the LEA has the security team also take part in coaching roles. By doing so, students feel a strong connection to the security personnel. Developing a bond between the students and coaches/ security team promotes respect and value for all members of the school community.  Areas of growth:  The LEA has a positive culture overall, but there are a couple of areas which could use some fine-tuning. First, the school would like to increase the amount of electives offered. Currently, the LEA offers Drama, Art, Photography, and Film Studies as A-G approved electives. Music classes have been requested, and while we do not currently offer an A-G approved class, the LEA does have a non-credit guitar class. Students have also vocalized their interest in taking other languages besides Spanish, so the LEA aims to offer French on campus through its dual enrollment program with LA Mission College this upcoming school semester.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647336016778|Dixie Canyon Community Charter|6|Dixie Canyon Community Charter administered the 2018 -2019 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 4th and 5th graders.  The participation rate for this survey was 90%.  The following are the questions that pertain to the school climate and the % of students indicating Yes, Always / Strongly Agree are noted next to the question.  Are you happy to be at this school? 88% Do you feel like you are part of this school? 77% Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 77% Do you feel safe at this school?  83%|2019-10-30||Met|2019
48705320122267|Dixon Montessori Charter|6|We have used the California Healthy Kids Survey of the 5th and 7th grades to understand the perceptions of students regarding our school climate. The vast majority of 5th grade students feel happy and supported. 97.1% of students say that their teacher cares about them, The vast majority of students (97.1%) feel that they are learning educationally relevant skills. 100% of students feel safe at least sometimes at school, 77.8% say that they always feel safe in any part of the school.  The vast majority of our seventh grade students, 96.4%, said that they feel supported by their teacher. 100% of students feel that they show educationally relevant skills in school. 95% feel safe at least sometimes at school, 64.82% say that they always feel safe in any part of the school.  The survey results show that DMCS has a culture and climate that makes students feel safe, supported, and eager to learn. Bullying, drugs, and alcohol are nearly nonexistent. Our attendance is high, most students who are absent were sick the day of the absence.  The feedback from these surveys had an impact on our actions. The admin team meets yearly with the fifth grade and middle school teachers to analyze the results. After meeting with 5th grade and middle school teachers we meet as a staff to discuss the survey and to create school-wide and middle school specific climate goals. These goals are embedded in our LCAP yearly.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
48705320000000|Dixon Unified|6|School climate, and in particular, the social-emotional well-being of our students, is a priority for Dixon Unified School District. In the DUSD LCAP, this need is called out specifically in Goal 3, which states we will “Provide students and staff with safe and positive school environments which promote and foster meaningful engagement and participation in their school communities.” To measure our progress toward this goal, the District looks at a number of indicators, including suspension and expulsion data, California Healthy Kids Survey, High School Graduation Rates, and Attendance Data, among others. What has consistently surfaced as a need is for our District is to take a more proactive approach to school behavior so as to reduce the number of suspensions, especially students who come from backgrounds traditionally over-represented in these data, such as students with disabilities and socioeconomically disadvantaged pupils. To address this need, the District has committed to working with our partners in Solano County to implement Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) at all our school sites.   To support initiatives related to school climate, the District created a Pupil Services Coordinator position in 2018-19.  In addition to supporting PBIS, this coordinator works hand-in-hand with families, teachers, students, and site administrators to improve attendance, student self-efficacy, access to mental health resources, monitoring of social-emotional and behavioral data, and professional development to staff, among other responsibilities. In addition to supporting PBIS, the following initiatives are in place for the 2019-20 school year, all of which stem from needs evident in our data and supported by stakeholder groups:  -Mental Health Clinicians for students in grades TK-12  -Professional Development around Adverse Childhood Experiences (ASES) for all certificated and classified staff  -Professional Development for certificated staff around Trauma Informed Practices -Fostering Resiliency professional learning  -Youth mental health first aid -Safety and Emergency Plan support and training -Attendance Incentive Programs  -Increased student supervision  -Social-Emotional Learning Curriculum for Primary Grades -Wellness Centers at all three elementary sites|2019-10-17||Met|2019
24753170000000|Dos Palos Oro Loma Joint Unified|6|The LEA administered a local climate survey in the spring semester of the 2018-2019 school year to all 5th-12th graders. In questions related to school safety, elementary-age students reported the following: Over 94% know what to do in a lockdown emergency or in case of a fire. 83% reported that teachers make it very clear that bullying is not allowed. 76% reported that they can go to a teacher and report bullying incidents and know that something is going to be done about it. On the other hand, only 33% believe that their peers will try to stop a bullying incident when they see it.   At the middle school level, 50% of students reported feeling very safe at school. 43% reported that teachers treat students with respect.  41% reported feeling comfortable reporting bullying incidents.  At the high school level, 46% of students reported feeling safe at school and only 35% of students were willing to report bullying incidents to a staff member.   Based on survey results, there is a clear need to implement a system that will allow students to report bullying incidents anonymously. In addition, there is a need to develop students' character traits such as integrity, citizenship, respect, and empathy for others. The survey revealed positive results at the elementary level. For example, 94% of students know what to do during an emergency situation and 76% know how to report bullying incidents.    In regards to school connectedness, 61% of 5th graders reported that a grown-up at school listens and cares about them. 81% reported that a grown-up believes in them and that they can be successful. At the middle school level, 57% of students reported feeling close to at least one person at school and felt like they were part of the school. Whereas at the high school level, 54% reported feeling close to one person at school. On the other hand, only 47% of high schoolers reported that they felt part of the school.  Based on the survey results, there is a need to form strong relationships with students on a daily basis. There is work to do at the secondary level to find out the reasons students feel disconnected from school. Each site will have to develop a plan to include student voices in the decision-making process. At the middle school level, the staff has recognized the need to increase student connectedness to school, as a result, they have implemented a 15 minute PRIDE period. During the PRIDE period, students meet with a staff member in small groups to discuss the daily challenges they face and brainstorm short and long term solutions.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
53716960000000|Douglas City Elementary|6|Our school district administers the full California Healthy Kids Survey every other year and the mini survey on the opposite years.   In the spring of 2019 the full survey was given to 5th & 7th grade students.  90% of our students reported having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school.  98% perceived the school as safe or very safe.  In the spring of 2018, the mini Healthy Kids Survey was given to grades 7th-8th.  The following results were compiled. 79% of our students reported having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school.  82% perceived the school as safe or very safe.    Results from the surveys were shared with our School Board and our LCAP Advisory Committee/Site Council.  This data helps to address our LCAP Goal 2, “Provide a three-tiered behavioral intervention framework to address students’ behavioral needs and to create a positive learning environment for all students.”  We continue to strive to improve our school climate each year.  (Priority 6)    Results taken from the district’s 2017-2018 reported in Table A 4.6-4.10, A 5.1 and 2018-2019 CHKS Main Report as in Table 4.3, 4.5, 4.8, 4.10, A7.1.   Student Group Reporting - Copies of survey were presented to the board and School Site Council.  Our district's focus is to ensure students feel safe and connected at school.  We will continue to pursue activities and ideas to increase opportunities for students to feel that they have meaningful participation at school.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19644510000000|Downey Unified|6|Downey Unified seeks input from our students (grades 3 -12) through our Annual Stakeholder Engagement Survey.  The key findings from the survey provide the district feedback around our 5 LCAP Goal Areas that incorporate the 8 state priorities.  A total of 7,783 students participated in the survey.  Students were asked a series of questions around 2 focal areas: 1) School Climate; 2) Learning Environment. The following results reflect the percentage of 3 – 12th grade students that Agree/Strongly Agree to the subsequent statements around School Climate: "I like going to school" (83%); “I feel safe at my school" (89%); “My school is clean and kept in good condition" (72%); "My school enforces rules consistently" (88%); "The students at my school treat each other with respect" (61%); "The adults at my school treat students with respect" (88%); "The teachers care about me as a person" (93%); " When I have a problem, there is a teacher or another adult I can talk to" (86%); "I fit in my school" (86%). The following results reflect the percentage of 3 – 12th grade students that Agree/Strongly Agree to the subsequent statements around Learning Environment: "I believe I can do well in school" (94%); "My teachers believe I can do well in school" (95%); "My school has high expectations for all students" (93%); "My teachers help me learn" (95%); "I feel comfortable asking questions in class" (73%); "I learn interesting things at school" (87%); "What I am learning in school will benefit me in the future" (84%); "My teachers recognize me when I do well" (83%); "My school has the technology to learn" (95%). These key findings are relevant to school safety and connectedness for Downey Unified and it supports our efforts in the review and modification of our LCAP.  The Stakeholder Engagement Survey is directly tied to the District Vision that states all students graduate with 21st Century education that ensures they are college and career ready, globally competitive, and citizens of strong character.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
01612590129635|Downtown Charter Academy|6|The LEA administers a local climate survey twice a year that provides a measure of perceptions of school culture and safety to all parents, students and school staff.  183 parents responded the survey last year: of which 36.6% were 6th grade parents, 47% were 7th grade parents, and 16.4% were parents of 8th graders.  Most comments were positive regarding school culture and safety.  Among the answers, parents responded that they choose the school because: We offer a good after school program, high academic scores, have a good reputation, their siblings attended the school, a structured program, smaller class sizes, support students to acquire self-discipline, positive learning environment and learning attitude, variety in clubs, high test scores, family and friends recommendations, students feel safe, wear uniforms, strong rules and responsibilities, good environment, better option, quality of education, students show discipline, good curriculum, excellent teachers, anti-bullying policy, etc.  Of the 61% of the parents responding the Survey, 94% said that the school m otivates students to learn, 85.8% that the school teachers students empathy and responsibility, 95.7% that the school have high expectations for students, 84.7% that the school prepares students for college, and 85,2% that the school communication is appropriate. The resiults were shared with all stakeholders: teachers and staff at staff meetings, parents during FST meetings, students during SEL, and Board members during monthly meeting.|2019-06-26|Although, the surveys did not offer red flags, we wwre aware of the need to improve our suspension rates. We created action plan and as a result, our expulsion and suspension rates were lower last year due to continuos communication with parents by the dean or students or site director, small group and individual support form wellness counselor, mindfulness and yoga lessons for students, training teachers on PBIS and positive behavior reinforcers. We continue to take steps for improvent by acquiring the Kickboard App to monitor progress of student positive behavior and communicating improvement to parents.  We have SST meetings at ongoing basis not by cycles, providing parents with updated information and making them partnes in decision making and action plans for students who need extra support.  We have a full time Wellness Counselor this year that continues to support students individually, in small groups (social skills, academic support and stresss management), and school-wide wellness program.  We continue to have a Mindfulness teacher for the After School Program.    We are going to offer again the workshops for parents on Internet Usage, and Sex Education this year.|Met|2019
43104390123257|Downtown College Prep - Alum Rock|6|GOAL: Downtown College Prep Alum Rock (DCP Alum Rock) is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that  the school environment will be safe and welcoming for all students.  ACTIONS: DCP Alum Rock engages in the following actions to support this goal: 1) Provide clean and safe facility, 2) Implement Restorative Practices and alternatives to suspension, 3) Utilize support staff to ensure a safe and welcoming environment, 4) Provide professional development to teachers to implement Restorative Practices, 5) Provide socio-emotional counseling, and 6)Support families in being actively involved in their child’s education and the school.  ASSESSMENT: DCP Alum Rock assesses its progress in this goal area through 1) Student and family ratings of school climate on the annual survey, 2) Suspension rate, 3) Expulsion rate, and 4) Facility rating.  ANALYSIS: On the annual survey, parents rated school culture at 4.04 in the Middle School and  4.08 in the High School, while students rated it at 3.48 at the Middle School and 3.4 at the High School on a scale of 1 - 5. The school will continue efforts, as detailed below, to cultivate a strong school culture for students.  2018-19 PROGRESS: DCP Alum Rock Middle School achieved progress in this goal area as follows:  RESTORATIVE PRACTICES - Alum Rock Middle School continues to implement elements of restorative practices and alternatives to suspension when appropriate.   SOCIO-EMOTIONAL WELLNESS - On site individual and small group counseling was provided by a part time counselor. SUMMERBRIDGE - 6th grade students start on a college campus and learn what the ARMS culture is for them.   2018-19PROGRESS: DCP Alum Rock High School achieved progress in this goal area as follows:   RESTORATIVE PRACTICES - Alum Rock High School continues to implement elements of restorative practices and alternatives to suspension when appropriate.   SOCIO-EMOTIONAL WELLNESS - On site individual and small group counseling was provided by a part time counselor.  CO COACHING OF AP: The Director of Student Services Position was added to provide coaching and culture support to Assistant Principals.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
43696664330585|Downtown College Preparatory|6|GOAL: Downtown College Prep (DCP El Primero) is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that  the school environment will be safe and welcoming for all students.  ACTIONS: DCP El Primero engages in the following actions to support this goal: 1) Provide clean and safe facility, 2) Implement Restorative Practices and alternatives to suspension, 3) Utilize support staff to ensure a safe and welcoming environment, 4) Provide professional development to staff  to implement Restorative Practices, 5) Provide socio-emotional counseling, and 6) Support families in being actively involved in their child’s education and the school.  ASSESSMENT: DCP El Primero assesses its progress in this goal area through 1) Student and family ratings of school climate on the annual survey, 2) Suspension rate, 3) Expulsion rate, and 4) Facility rating.  ANALYSIS: On the annual survey, parents rated school culture at 3.66 while students rated it at 3.31 on a scale of 1 - 5. The school will continue efforts, as detailed below, to cultivate a strong school culture.  2018-19 PROGRESS: DCP El Primero achieved progress in this goal area as follows:  ALMA CENTER IN SECOND YEAR OF OPERATION  -  The space provides a safe haven for students to develop their voice as learners and people in an environment that is open both in terms of how space is used and how staff and students interact. RESTORATIVE PRACTICES - EPHS continues to implement elements of restorative practices and alternatives to suspension when appropriate. In addition, the school dedicated considerable staff time to professional development to refine routines and procedures in classrooms and through transitions to reduce opportunities for negative student behavior and to improve staff skill in mitigating potential disruption. This effort continues into 2019-20 as the school had dedicated professional development efforts to establishing and maintaining student culture and safety as a critical priority.  HIRED AN ADDITIONAL ASSISTANT PRINCIPAL: EPHS hired an additional member for the administrative team to assist with climate and culture matters including the implementation of Restorative Practices across the campus.  SOCIO-EMOTIONAL WELLNESS - The new site allowed for increased on site individual and small group counseling from both outside providers and social work interns. . CO COACHING OF AP: The Director of Student Services Position was added to provide coaching and culture support to Assistant Principal.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
43696660129718|Downtown College Preparatory Middle|6|GOAL: Downtown College Prep Middle School (DCP El Camino) is committed to ensuring a positive school culture. Toward that end, it holds the goal that  the school environment will be safe and welcoming for all students.  ACTIONS: DCP El Camino engages in the following actions to support this goal: 1) Provide clean and safe facility, 2) Implement Restorative Practices and alternatives to suspension, 3) Utilize support staff to ensure a safe and welcoming environment, 4) Provide professional development to staff to implement Restorative Practices, 5) Provide socio-emotional counseling, 6) Provide alternatives to suspension and 7)Support families in being actively involved in their child’s education and the school.  ASSESSMENT: DCP El Camino assesses its progress in this goal area through 1) Student and family ratings of school climate on the annual survey, 2) Suspension rate, 3) Expulsion rate, and 4) Facility rating.  ANALYSIS: On the annual survey, parents rated school culture at 3.56 while students rated it at 3.44 on a scale of 1 - 5. The school will continue efforts, as detailed below, to cultivate a strong school culture.  2018-19PROGRESS: DCP El Camino achieved progress in this goal area as follows:   ALMA CENTER IN SECOND YEAR OF OPERATION  -.  The space provides a safe haven for students to develop their voice as learners and people in an environment that is open both in terms of how space is used and how staff and students interact. RESTORATIVE PRACTICES - ECMS continues to implement elements of restorative practices and alternatives to suspension when appropriate. In addition, the school dedicated considerable staff time to professional development to refine routines and procedures in classrooms and through transitions to reduce opportunities for negative student behavior and to improve staff skill in mitigating potential disruption.  HIRED A DEAN: ECMS hired an additional member for the administrative team to assist with climate and culture matters including the implementation of Restorative Practices across the campus.  SOCIO-EMOTIONAL WELLNESS - The new site allowed for increased on site individual and small group counseling from both outside providers and social work interns.  Additionally, the school hired a PT counselor starting in January 2018 for the remainder of the school year.  . LOBO DAYS - All students participated in “Lobo Days” as a way to begin the year, establish relationships between staff and students and set the culture to begin the year. CULTURE RESET - In January 2019, all staff and students participated in a series of lessons and activities to establish a culture of mutual respect to begin the second semester.  This resulted in a significant decrease in student behavior incidents resulting in a safer school environment.   CO COACHING OF AP: The Director of Student Services Position was added to provide coaching and culture support to Assistant Principal.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647336119903|Downtown Value|6|In May of 2019, students, parents, and staff were given a survey to review the climate at Downtown Value School.   Based on the School-wide Reflections Survey for Value Schools, 84.8% of students state that they believe the school provides opportunities to join clubs and sports, ~68% of the student population avoids the use of drugs and alcohol, 78.43% of students say their teacher is available when they need them, 65.36% of students believe their teacher cares about them, and 74.57% of students state they agree or strongly agree that Downtown Value School is preparing them for college or university. 72.48% of students have also stated that faculty and staff treat students with respect.  When parents were surveyed, 64.85% believe that they have had sufficient opportunities to get involved in supporting the school and 78.53% state they are satisfied with the overall education being received by their child. Parents were asked open-ended questions about the school. Some responses include “small school therefore teachers can build stronger connections to students”, small classroom size [compared to similar neighboring schools] and communication from staff”, and there is constant communication between teachers and parents.  When staff was surveyed, 84% stated that they received sufficient support with technology and 66% believe the Instructional feedback from Instructional Coaches and/or Administrators was helpful in their development as a teacher. ~73% of teachers state they have never or rarely been disrespected by students because of their race, ethnicity, or culture and 77.5% state they believe the faculty and staff at my school treat students with respect.  Downtown Value moving towards the implementation of PBIS to help students with their social/ emotional needs which aligns to the school values. This data is shared with stakeholders so they can be informed and assist the school with their student’s needs.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
39686760117853|Dr. Lewis Dolphin Stallworth Sr. Charter|6|Stallworth Charter surveyed its students anonymously to identify areas of strength and weakness concerning school climate. The survey was based on California’s Healthy Kids Survey and addressed issues of campus safety, staff-student relationships, and how students feel about their school. The elementary grade band (K through 5th grade) and the middle school grade band (6th through 8th grade) were surveyed.  One of the key learnings that the LEA identified based on the survey results is most of our students feel valued and important on our campus (85% of elementary and 88% of middle school students surveyed) and believe that they are treated fairly by the staff (100% of elementary students and 95% of middle school students surveyed). All of the students surveyed in both grade bands said they feel safe on our campus and agreed that staff teaches students about respect and having care for each other. One area of weakness that the survey identified is the rate of bullying present in the elementary grades. While 28% of middle school students reported being in physical altercations in the last month, more than 49% of elementary students said they were hit by other students on a weekly basis. The results of the survey identify our greatest strength is the personal relationships that our staff has developed with the students we serve because students are feeling valued and safe. Our greatest barrier identified by the survey is the rate of physical altercations in the elementary grade bands.   In an effort to address the shortcomings identified by the climate survey, Stallworth Charter has adopted a social-emotional development curriculum and designated a section of the school day to explicitly instruct students on positive social behavior. Stallworth Charter is using the CASEL-approved curriculum Random Acts of Kindness across all grades. The intent behind this action is to improve the school-wide culture of our campus and encourage students to recognize their common humanity. The curriculum explicitly addresses bullying in elementary classes. We have also reorganized our yard duty staff to accommodate the larger class sizes of the elementary classes and ensure adequate adult supervision to address the bullying that students cite in the survey.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330102491|Dr. Theodore T. Alexander Jr. Science Center|6|We have established a culture of Restorative Justice Practices as an alternative to school suspension. We currently have a 0% suspension rate. We have Positive Behavior Assemblies at the beginning of every semester for students and staff. We provide parents with a district handbook that clearly outlines positive attributes and clear expectations of adult and student behavior on campus. Teachers have created a rubric to gage which behaviors warrant a meeting with the principal, phone call home or loss of privileges. Staff meets monthly to review the data, brainstorm and problem solve areas of concern brought to our attention by other staff members or parents.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
31668030000000|Dry Creek Joint Elementary|6|The District has been focused on increasing student connectedness and engagement for the last several years.  Under Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) we have implemented Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) District-wide.  Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) has been a priority with a focus on Restorative Practices, Toolbox strategies, school-based counseling, Mental Health counseling, District-wide tiered levels of support, parent education and numerous resources and programs for students.   The District worked closely with Hanover Research to develop a comprehensive social-emotional survey in order to gather feedback and perceptions of school engagement from our students.  Students 4-8, were administered a survey divided into the following constructs:  Self-Awareness, Growth Mindset, Self-Management, Responsible Decision-Making, Social Awareness, Relationship Skills, Civic Mindset, Social Support, Emotional Well-Being, Bullying and Peer Pressure, School Environment and Demographics.  Survey data indicates many strengths, including those listed below.  Both elementary and middle school students generally rate themselves well on many of the constructs explored in the survey.  More than 75 percent in both groups agree with most of the items related to self-awareness, growth mindset, self-management, and social awareness.  Students have especially high agreement (close to 90% or higher) on the following items: Social Awareness:  95% agree it is important to treat people with respect Self-management:  89% agree that hey know right from wrong Growth mindset:  88% think they can learn from their mistakes Self-awareness:  87% believe they can do most things if they try Ninety-Three percent (93%) of students 4-8 grade agree that they have friends at school.  Elementary students have a positive perception of the adults at school who are part of their social support system.  Ninety-Two percent (92%) agree that their teachers believe they will be successful, 85% believe that adults at school care about them, 81% say they have at least one trusted adult school and 79% report that adults at school listen when they have something to say.  Survey data also indicated areas of focus, including those listed below:   Half of students or fewer (51% elementary vs. 46% middle school) agree they can explain their feelings to others.   A bit over half agree that they know how to handle stress.   Middle school students feel less connected to adults at school than elementary.  71% report that they have at least one adult at school that they trust.   65% believe that adults at school care about them 63% believe that adults at school listen to them when they have something to say.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
27660920129239|Dual Language Academy of the Monterey Peninsula|6||||Not Met|2019
19644690000000|Duarte Unified|6|Duarte Unified uses the California Healthy Kids Survey (grades 5, 7, and 9) to measure school climate. These data are used to shape programs that support a positive climate for learning and student success.   In terms of school engagement and supports, the responses for students in grade 5 were strongest in the areas of academic motivation (87%) and high expectations (83%). By contrast, responses were weak in meaningful participation (37%). Secondary students also responded the strongest about academic motivation (75% grade 7 and 62% grade 9) and high expectations (73% grade 7 and 65% grade 9). Across all secondary grade levels, students responded the least favorably to the questions that address meaningful participation. Duarte schools have been building new programs that promote positive connections with school, including arts integration, CTE pathways, internships and early college. By providing increased pathway options and extracurricular activities, student engagement is more meaningful, aligned with student interests, and connected with real life experiences. An area of growth is to provide students with more input on school activities or school rules.   In terms of school safety, students in grade 5 responded strongly that they feel safe at school (73%). These same students reported a greater concern about being called bad names or mean jokes (53%) than having been hit or pushed (42%). Students responded favorably (82%) to feeling treated with respect. To address some of the specific areas related to discipline and safety, Duarte schools continue to focus on implementation of Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS).  For secondary students, 63% grade 7 perceived their school as safe or very safe. By comparison, students in high school report a relatively lower response to the perception that their school is safe or very safe (45% grade 9 and 50% grade 11).  The highest level of safety concern at the secondary level was related to harassment and/or mean rumors as compared to physical fights and/or weapons. Grade 7 experienced harassment or bullying (41%) or had mean rumors or lies spread about them (45%). Those same areas were also relatively high for grade 9  who experienced harassment or bullying (41%) and/or had mean rumors or lies spread about them (39%). The lowest area of concern was related to seeing a weapon on campus (13% Grade 7, 18% Grade 9, and 8% Grade 11).  Another relatively low area of concern was related to being in a physical fight or being in a physical fight (19% Grade 7, 14% Grade 9, and 10% Grade 11). These data indicate the need to focus on security measures that are integrated into a school wide PBIS approach. Mental health services are available for students to address many of the challenges they face with social-emotional interactions. Safety plans are developed to include a broad range of components that ensure both the physical as well as the social-emotional safety and well-being of our students.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
01750930000000|Dublin Unified|6|The Dublin USD LCAP Goal 2 states: "We will provide an environment that maximizes student learning, build resilience so that all students are engaged and supported with their social, emotional, behavioral, and physical needs in a safe learning environment." Progress on this goal is measured by the results of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) which is administered district wide in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. We monitor the percentage of students who report feeling a "high level of school connectedness" as a measure of successful engagement with students and providing a safe and trusting learning environment. The metric has been tracked for 4 years. At grade 11, the results have been: 2017 - 59%, 2018 - 61%, 2019 - 59%. At grade 9, the results have been: 2017 - 67%, 2018 - 65%, 2019 - 65%. At grade 7, the results have been: 2017 - 68%, 2018 - 73%, 2019 - 61%. At the 5th grade level, data are only available for the last three years: 2017 - 74%, 2018 - 79%, 2019 - 75%. These and other data are shared annually to the school board and with administration. We use the data to inform our decisions about areas of need and where support resources need to be deployed.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
54718940000000|Ducor Union Elementary|6|The Ducor Elementary School District utilizes the California Healthy Kids Survey as the principal school climate indicator to hear the student voice as to the climate for learning at our school. Although the survey had mixed responses, our analysis yields to conclusions that must continue to be addressed in a schoolwide approach to include professional development for staff as well as programs and services for students. First, the overwhelming response is “moderate” to “high” with a small number and percentage of students reporting “low”. The survey looks at student responses to questions about: • School supports • Caring adults at school • High expectations of adults at the school • School connectedness • Parent involvement at the school, and • Academic motivation. Our goal is that every student reports a high degree of satisfaction with each of these factors. One of the ways we are addressing this is through on-campus intervention and support with schoolwide teacher training and staff assigned to coordinate services for students. Another way we are addressing this is through schoolwide approaches to student literacy and academic support. An approach that is showing substantive increase in student connectedness is co-curricular instructional field trip experiences that connect classroom experiences to real-world applications and experiences. Further, we have invested in professional assistance with support for students academic and personal growth to ameliorate the high-risk factors that challenge our students. Staff and parents continue to report through surveys and interviews a high degree of confidence in the safe and welcoming school climate at Ducor School.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49706720122440|Dunham Charter|6|An annual student survey was administered in the spring to garner student input. 100% of the students reported feeling safe around the outside of the school, 100% reported feeling safe in their classrooms, and 98.15% of the students reported feeling safe in the bathroom and hallways.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
49706720000000|Dunham Elementary|6|An annual student survey was administered in the spring to garner student input. 100% of the students reported feeling safe around the outside of the school, 100% reported feeling safe in their classrooms, and 98.15% of the students reported feeling safe in the bathroom and hallways.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
10622650116640|Dunlap Leadership Academy|6|The local climate survey is administered to all students in grades 9-12 at DLA.  This survey provides data on overall school climate and culture as it pertains to student safety, expectations for both behavior and academic achievement as well as expectations beyond graduation.  Through an analysis of the survey results, it is evident that DLA has been successful in building and maintaining a positive, safe environment for students.  For example, 100% of students report that the “there are clear expectations for behavior at my school”.  96% of students feel that “there are clear consequences for breaking the rules”.   Also, 98% of students “feel welcome at school”.    Student perception of safety and connectedness as it relates to student and teacher behavior is consistent and positive, but there is always room for growth.  For example, only 85% of students feel that school staff “think it is important that I attend school every day”.  Also, only 65% of students feel that “students at school always treat adults with respect”.   Lastly, 89% of students believe that “this school is the right place for them”.  DLA would like to see closer to 100% of students feeling that they are in the right program.  Each of the data points are considered when creating school site plans around the continuous improvement of campus culture.    As a result of student survey analysis, Dunlap Leadership Academy plans to implement more student led activities to increase student connectedness.  These activities include on site activities as well as outreach activities at community events like the district fair and the community Fiesta weekend.  In addition, DLA plans to heavily promote student activities such as prom, college trips, and other study trips in coordination with a neighboring charter school.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
47702430000000|Dunsmuir Elementary|6|We continue to address behavior and social-emotional well-being of our students at DES. We continued to use  MTSS (Muti-tiered System of Support) in our school in the 2018-19 school year and will continue to use in in the 2019-20 school year. This year we have implemented a Sensory Room for students to come to in order to regulate their behaviors with tools they choose. We have also implemented a Peer Conflict Mediation program with twelve 5-8 graders trained to run these meeting. Our counselor will hold Love and Logic Classes for parents again this year, with the focus on primary grade students. The entire staff attended a two-day Restorative Practices training before the school year began. This will be our focus for helping students work through conflicts. We have also implemented a Social/Emotional curriculum, Second Step, for grades K-8  In order to serve our students who are 2 or more years behind in ELA, we have implemented an Intervention program, Language Live for our 5-8 students.    Each year, Dunsmuir Elementary School asks the parents/guardians of our student to complete a School Climate Survey. The survey covers several key content area: • Characteristics of parent respondents and their children • Student supports and school conditions (learning environment, school discipline, cultural sensitivity, opportunities for meaningful student participation) • How welcoming the school is to parents • The scope and nature of parental involvement in school activities and decision-making • The scope and nature of school communications to parents • Parental involvement in their children’s education During the 2018-19 school year, we utilized Survey Monkey to build our own online survey. 41 parents responded to the survey.  This was up from 10 in 2017-18  Parental Involvement:  • 96% of respondents indicated they strongly agree or agree that they feel welcome at  DES.   2%  strongly disagreed. 94% indicated they strongly agree or agree that DES gives them opportunities to be involved in school decisions and in activities and events.  97% of respondents strongly agree or agree that they are comfortable talking with staff about questions or concerns that they have. 2% strongly disagreed.  81% of respondents agree that they are well informed about activities at DES. 19% disagree. The communication tool respondents felt  was most effective was the DES Facebook Page. Text, email, and phone calls were also felt to be effective.   Academic Orientation and Participation: • 82% of respondents strongly agree or agree  that their children’s academic needs are being met at DES. 17% disagreed.  90% of respondents strongly agree or agree that their children are happy/engaged in school. 10% disagree.   Respect  • 98% of respondents  strongly agree DES staff cares about their children.  2% disagreed.    Discipline  • 89% of respondents strongly agree or agree that the discipline policy is fair and consistent at DES. 10% disagree.   •|2019-10-15||Met|2019
47702500000000|Dunsmuir Joint Union High|6|The District administers an annual survey to its students in the 3rd quarter, to every student. The survey includes questions about respect, teach knowledge, ability to demonstrate their work, knowing who to go to in times of need for personal or academic reasons, bullying and general safety, as well as other questions about the school and the school's program. In general, the students report feeling safe at the school, and the ability to go to teachers and staff if they need. Some reported being bullied, and the staff is in the process of narrowing the definition of bullying so we can determine what form it takes, and therefore how to address it. In the meantime we are reigniting our anti-bullying campaign by having special speakers talk about the devastating effects, and how to avoid peer pressure. These speakers are reaching kids and we are seeing some improvement.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
04614320000000|Durham Unified|6|The Durham Unified School District has been engaged in implementation of an MTSS program  (Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) as well as Restorative Justice strategies) with the goals of reducing incidents and disciplinary actions, and lessening disproportionate suspension rate gaps between Latino (2018, 3.2%) and White students (2018, 2.1%).  Annual suspension raw numbers decreased from 2014 to 2017, Latino students (3.8%), and White students (3.4%) .  There was a spike in suspensions during the 2018/19 year (Hispanic, 1.5%; White, .6%), Proactive programs (MTSS) promoting a positive and tolerant campus climate were intiated in ‘17/’18 and continue.  Student expulsions total six since 2014/15, with one occuring in 2018/19. Suspension and expulsion rates do not yet mirror overall enrollment demographics.  It is important to note that a small subgroup population size leads to a significant per-cent change in suspension data that can oftentimes be based on a single event. (see page 66 of the district LCAP annual report which can be found at: http://durhamunified.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/2019-2020-DUSD-LCAP.pdf Student and parents have also been surveyed using a number of tools including the California Healthy Kids survey and a locally created LCAP survey to focus on key questions. CHKS is given every other year (The survey will be administered in November of 2019, with results forthcoming by December 31, 2019) and is augmented by our own local biannual survey. 2017/18 CHKS results show that 75% of students indicate a high level of school connectedness; 94% by seventh grade, and 93% by eleventh grade (Tables A4.6, 2017/18 Int and Secondary CHKS). A total of 68% of seventh, 77% of ninth, and 59% of eleventh graders rate their school as safe or very safe (Tables A5.1, 2017/18 Int and Secondary CHKS). Survey and disciplinary data is presented to the local governing board each year. The board will review the 2019/20 data at the regularly scheduled meeting on November 20, 2019.|2019-10-23|It is important to note that a small subgroup population size leads to a significant per-cent change in suspension data that can oftentimes be based on a single event.|Met|2019
37683380127647|e3 Civic High|6|Key reflections from our survey revealed that e3 staff gave the school an overall rating of an A-B grade at 88%. 90 % of staff said they would recommend the school to a friend or family member. In contrast, 88% of parents also gave the school an overall rating of A-B grade. 88% of parents stated they would recommend the school or a friend or family member. 50% of parents also revealed that they chose e3 Civic High based upon academics with the College and Career readiness as their primary goal. The data revealed strength in our overall academic program, college and career readiness, and school climate. In addition data revealed that faculty are knowledgeable, respectful and care about their scholars. An area for growth was the need for more timely communication from the school. Our site has implemented a variety of actions to address our growth needs. We implemented a schoolwide auto communication for family with weekly updates on Saturday. In addition the system is used for text messages, mass email messages and phone calls. Each week, the school sends a newsletter to update on all activities. Finally, we have instituted a 12 month Parent Institute to provide a robust training plan for all families in both English and Spanish.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
07617546118087|Eagle Peak Montessori|6|We conduct a parent survey each year. The survey results show a strong support for the school and belief in the educational program, safety and leadership of the school. We offer the parents an opportunity to provide their names and contacts if there are concerns they wish to share with the board. In the Annual Report from the school’s principal, the results from the parent survey are shared with the board and compared over a 5 year period. This allows for the board to observe trends or to see any increase or decrease in concerns in any area. For the past 5 years between 90-95% of respondents answered positively to questions regarding safety at school, the community at the school, and the program the school offers|2019-10-30||Met|2019
54719020000000|Earlimart Elementary|6|Then district administers a local climate survey to students in order to capture the quality of school climate and culture around the following priority areas:  Conditions of Learning and Engagement.  The first part of the survey gauges students’ opinions on the climate for support for academic learning, such as schools providing a quality education and having access to what student’s need to learn while at school. Both responses were favorable, with 91.5% and 91% of students answering positively that the schools provide a support for academic learning.  The next part of the climate assessed how students feel about parent and school communication regarding their attendance. 94% of students answered that there is communication regarding school attendance.  The final part of the survey measures if students feel safe and enjoy coming to school every day (school connectedness).  Students answered 70.4% positively that they feel safe at school, and in regards to school connectedness, they answered 77% positively that they like to come to school.  On the comments, many students reported that they enjoyed recess, being with their friends, and being able to use the pool. Upon further analysis of the data, the Earlimart ESD noticed that the highlights were student’s positive attitudes that EUSD schools provide them with access to a high quality education and were consistent in all student groups. The area of school connectedness and feeling welcome in school also improved.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
01612590129932|East Bay Innovation Academy|6|We have utilized School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI) for our parents, students, and staff. The survey measures nine areas, Physical Appearance, Faculty Relationships, Student Interactions, Leadership/Decision Making, Discipline, Learning/Assessment, Attitude/Culture, Community Relations, and Special Education.  Areas of strength, (highest ratings in each category), mutual respect, feeling of safety, pride in student work, logical consequences over punishment, cooperative learning and student reflection, communication with community, climate of inclusion.  Areas of growth/for continuous improvement, presence of litter, facility and community attendance at school events, zero tolerance for put downs, staff feels valued, consistent discipline practices, students think the school is the best, effective teaching and management strategies for sped.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
51713730000000|East Nicolaus Joint Union High|6|ENHS gave the CA Healthy Kids Survey during the 2018-2019 school year.  ENHS had students surveyed on what is going well at ENHS and what needs to be improved on from the student perspective. ENHS students have stated that there is more of a school spirit and pride lately and that students are being supported in the classrooms and around campus by staff.  ENHS continues to provide many extra curricular options for students to get involved in whether it be clubs or sports.  Another aspect that students have identified that is going well is being connected to other students, and a small school environment.  Areas of improvements that students have identified are: having longer school assemblies throughout the school year, upgrade our current technology so students can have more access on campus, more tables for them to sit at in the quad area, a need to look at better food options at ENHS possible healthy vending machines, and to provide more educational field trips.   Seeing the current student identified needs ENHS has continued to do listen to our students and have started to work on the following. ENHS has purchased more Chromebooks for students and teachers to use on campus for the 2019-2020 school year. ENHS has also started to update our current technology infrastructure to handle more technology and to bring more localized access to all areas around campus. ENHS has brought more post secondary educational/career options onto campus for students to connect with throughout the year. ENHS is continuing to look at expanding our educational field trip options for students and have had students attend educational field trips to various post secondary educational institutions. Every year ENHS has a barbecue that is put on by our Nutritional Services department that has the whole school sample different food options for students to try that could them make it on the menu for next school year based on student feedback. ENHS has purchased more tables for the quad so students can have more areas to sit. ENHS is in the final stages of updating our kitchen/ food service/mini eating area to make it more accessible to cook, serve food, and eat at for students and staff.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
41690620126722|East Palo Alto Academy|6|EPAA uses two surveys to measure school climate.  We begin with the Panorama Survey for all students.  We then follow this with a listening campaign in which staff engage in 2-4 one-on-one feedback sessions with students, as it relates to specific questions in which we would like more elaborate feedback.  In spring 2019 we did a listening campaign to better understand our African American students’ needs at EPAA. For several years now EPAA students have completed the Search Institute Developmental Assets Profile survey.  The information in this report is based on a survey of students in East Palo Alto, CA in August 2018.  It is based on data from Search Institute’s survey Developmental Assets Profile.  It focuses on understanding the strengths and supports (or “Developmental Assets”) that young people experience in their lives.  Extensive research has shown that having these assets in their lives helps young people make positive life choices.  Overall our students had the following results from strongest to most challenging in the mean scores for the eight categories for assets (range 0-30).  Boundaries and expectations (19.1), support (18.7), empowerment (18.4), social competencies (18.4), positive identity (17.4), positive values (17.4), commitment to learning (17.1) and the most challenging for our students is constructive use of time (13.6).  As a result of this data we further developed our transitional program from 8th to 9th grade in the following ways.  We now have a two week “summer bridge” session, which was once only four days for the rising 9th graders.  We also include a curriculum that specifically emphasizes the “Bulldog Way” which is our social emotional core values.  These core values include love (love of self and others), power (understanding your ability to make positive change), attitude (a positive attitude about school as a key lever for future success), growth mindset (the road to success is full of challenges that can be overcome),and grit (understanding the value in working hard, especially when things are challenging).  We have additionally emphasized the Bulldog Way as it relates to our exhibition and advisories.  We continue to fund a full wrap-around team that includes therapists, a social worker, psychiatry fellows and a restorative justice coordinator.  To help facilitate a better asset orientation as it relates to the greater community we also work with the local Boys and Girls club, in addition to a variety of local community based organizations such as Fly, Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center, Youth Community Service and the Ecumenical Hunger Program.  We continue to seek out resources for our families and community members who have recently struggle with housing insecurity and immigration policies that are interrupting families and therefore many of our students’ lives. Our strongest area was School Safety with room for growth in school engagement.  For this reason we have invested further in student clubs.|2019-10-16|As a result of  the Panorama survey as part of the SUHSD.  Our strongest area was School Safety with a 3.8 in a 5 point scale, followed by 3.3 in school climate, 3.2 in school belonging, and 2.8 in school engagement.  As a result of the school survey and the extended opportunity for interviews we made some revisions to how student government was going to celebrate all school activities, diversifying in more inclusive ways for all the groups on campus (e.g., Latinx, Pacific Islanders and African Americans (we only have 1% other)).   Additionally we have included more professional development around Positive Behavior Interventions and Support (PBIS) throughout the school year.  We have included support through the Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center on everything from more extensive mediations for students and de-escalation strategies for teachers and staff to practice in their classrooms.  We have expanded our sports program with heavier recruitment (for school belonging and more structured positive use of non-school hours), in addition to adding a new sport (Cross Country).  Finally, we are also trying to find ways to include more clubs on campus, through incentives for staff to become sponsors.  We have since added a journalism and an E-Sports Competitive Gaming club.|Met|2019
43694270000000|East Side Union High|6|The East Side Union High School Districts administers the Panorama Student survey twice a year. Key areas that need to be measured are School Connectedness, Climate for Support for Academic Learning, Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline Rules and Norms, and Safety. The 2019 spring survey indicates that: • 52% , or about half, of students feel connected to their school which is the same as 2018.  • 66%, or about 2 out of 3 students, feel that there is support for academic learning, which is the same as last year.  • 55%, or about half, of the students have knowledge of school discipline rules and norms and believe they are fairly administered, which is the same as last year. • 72% or 3 out of 4 students feel safe at school, which is a 1 percentage point increase from last year.   The data above shows that many of our students do not feel a sense of connectedness to school nor do they feel supported in their academic learning. In order to improve these outcomes, as a district we are committed to building capacity amongst all staff members to ensure that equity and inclusion are essential principles of our school system. Specifically, we will build capacity to attain equitable ESUHSD communities where: • ALL students are welcomed as they are • strengths and areas of growth for all students are known and supported • adults positively respond to the social-emotional, wellness, and academic needs of every student  • ALL students engage with tasks that develop the strategic thinking skills for full participation in their local communities and the global society.  The survey indicates that about half of our students have knowledge of school discipline rules and norms and believe they are fairly administered. In order to improve this the district has worked to create and implement a consistent student behavior response matrix which standardizes adult responses to student behavior to ensure equitable and fair outcomes for all students.  At each site, an equity team has been formed to develop school connectedness, inclusive practices and improved school culture and outcomes for all students.  This is a three-year effort support by researched-baed framework for action and direct coaching and supports.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19644850000000|East Whittier City Elementary|6|Every year, East Whittier City School District administers the California Kids Healthy Survey fifth and seventh grade students. The students were asked to report their perception of school connectedness and school safety. At the elementary level,  In 2017-18, 63% of 5th graders expressed high levels of school connectedness. In 2018-19, 79% of participating 5th graders felt a high level of school connectedness. This shows an increase of 16 percentage points.  In 2017-18, 84% of 5th graders also felt high levels of being safe at school In 2018-19, 86% of participating 5th graders 86% generally felt safe at school. This was a slight increase from the previous year.  At the middle school level, in 2017-18, 66% of 7th graders also felt high levels of school connectedness and in 2018-19, roughly 70% of all 7th graders reported high levels of school connectedness. This was an increase of 4%.  In 2017-18, 72% of 7th graders also felt high levels of school safety. During the 2018-19 school year, 67% of participating 7th graders reported high levels of school safety.  Based on the data, a new set of students took the survey the following year, 5th and 7th grade students were increasingly connected to their school sites. Even though there was a slight increase of students feeling safe at the elementary level, the vast majority of fifth grade students are feeling safe at school.  The seventh grade students expressed a decline of students feeling safe at school.  At EWCSD, given our diverse populations, we are not a one size fits all type of district. The social workers, teachers, principals, and District support staff create an individualized plan at each site. Each school develops a plan that addresses the specific needs and determines which course of action the school needs.  In an effort to build social-emotional learning and school connectedness our LCAP has increased the number of counseling staff from six District counselors to nine District counselors. Beginning in 2019-20, the ratio from counselor to students has decreased from 1:1225 to 1:953. With intern support, counselors can also increase their level of support with the implementation of the Second Step curriculum in Transitional Kindergarten (TK) through first grade classrooms. With the Second Step curriculum, students gain the skills they need to become caring, confident, and capable learners and problem-solvers. Districtwide, all school sites are implementing the Olweus Bullying Prevention program. training.  Beginning in 2019-20, ten schools are being trained to implement the Positive Behavior Intervention of Supports (PBIS) program. Increasing school connectedness and feelings of school safety is an empirical outcome for all of these programs. When students feel safe and connected to their school, it will increase their willingness to collaborate, communicate, create, think critically and build a broader community.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
26736680000000|Eastern Sierra Unified|6|Data, Meaning and Use are reflected below using the California Healthy Kids Survey:   1. Learning and Working Environment - Overall, the majority of our stakeholders feel that ESUSD is a positive learning and working environment.  Specifically, our rankings for being supportive and safe are well above 70%. A couple areas for improvement are a. Uses objective data in making improvement decisions and b. Adults in our schools having close professional relationships with one another.  In order to address these two areas, the district has compiled CAASPP data and administrators are working with each of their staffs to find a focus for teachers and grade levels.  In order to promote the use of this knowledge and working relationships, staff will be allotted an additional grade level meeting date to continue to build meaningful relationships and share ideas for student learning.   2. Student Developmental Supports and Opportunities - Overall, students did not feel they have the opportunity to decide things, but the majority feel that they have equal opportunity to participate in extracurricular and enrichment activities.  The majority indicated that there was positive staff-student relationships. ESUSD will be working on student input through surveys given to all constituents.   3. Learning Conditions - Overall, students feel supported by their teachers and feel that teachers treat all students with respect. Students feel that school rules are fair and that students are well-behaved.  ESUSD started 7 Mindsets during the 18/19 school year and has planned to continue its use.    4. Respect, Equity, and Cultural Sensitivity - Most of our staff and students feel that behaviors toward one another are positive.  an area that scored low was 'Support Provided for Teaching Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Students'.  The majority felt that this area was not an issue, but 36% did.  The district plans to incorporate additional training in supporting our EL students and SpEd students through bi-weekly staff meetings that include training from Mono County Office of Education in those areas, as well as looking at curricular options through a different lens.   5. Learning Readiness and Engagement - Overall, stakeholders feel that there is a high motivation to learn and attend school.  The district plans to continue the rigorous SARB program to continue on this positive path.   6. Student Health and Risk Behavior - Bullying, fighting and delinquency were all reported not to be a big problem.  Students arriving alert and rested for school showed some area for improvement as well as student alcohol and drug use as a problem.  ESUSD is taking extra steps to ensure students have access to counselors as needed through Mono County Office of Education counseling supports and better drug and alcohol awareness.   7. Professional Development Needs - ESUSD showed a need for better PD. The district plans to offer additional PD in the areas of instruction and curriculum.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
19644770000000|Eastside Union Elementary|6|To gather data regarding school climate and social emotional learning, the Panorama Education School Climate and Social Emotional Learning Surveys we given to students in grades 3 – 8 in September 2019.   The School Climate survey items gathered information on the following categories with the percentage representing the percent of favorable responses by grade span: • School Teacher-Student Relationships  gr. 3-5: 75% / gr. 6-8: 62% • School Rigorous Expectations gr. 3-5: 69% / gr. 6-8: 51% • School Belonging gr. 3-5: 61% / gr. 6-8 49% • School Climate gr. 3-5: 61% / gr. 6-8 45% • School Engagement gr. 3-5: 58% / gr. 6-8 35% The Social Emotional survey items gathered information on the following categories with the percentage representing the percent of favorable responses by grade span: • Self-Management gr. 3-5 68% / gr. 6-8 64% • Social Awareness gr. 3-5 68% / gr. 6-8 59% • Self-efficacy gr. 3-5 62% / gr. 6-8 52% • Growth Mindset gr. 3-5 61% / gr. 6-8 49% • Emotion Regulation gr. 3-5 54% / gr. 6-8 47% Students’ level of connection to school and staff was stronger in the primary grades and decreased as students matriculated into higher grades. Students showed a need for a social and emotional program. Students identified bullying as a concern and indicated that student to student relationships were weak. Strengths:  Teacher-student relationships and self-management. Challenges: Overall school climate and emotional regulation. Programs in development to improve school culture and social emotional learning: • Move This World • Restorative Practices • Olweus Bully Prevention Program • PBIS • Spriego (electronic or phone reporting system)|2019-10-16||Met|2019
50757390124669|eCademy Charter at Crane|6|Turlock Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 5, 7, 9, 11, and to our non-traditional schools in 2018-2019, and the District's LCAP survey was administered in January-March of 2019. The LCAP survey was made available to all students in the district, a majority of students responding the to the survey were seventh grade and up.  CHKS key findings included:  97% moderate to high for school connectedness at the elementary level and an average of 91% moderate to high for our secondary level, 95% moderate to high for caring adults in school at the elementary level and an average of 83% for caring adults at the secondary level.  77% perceived safety at school at the elementary level and 54.5% average of perceived safety at school at the secondary level.  LCAP Survey key findings include:  82.31% agree and strongly agree feeling safe at school and 69.51% agree and strongly agree with the statement:  I feel like I am part of the school/connectedness.  The District will continue to review and monitor areas with site administration.  The District has already provided parent engagement resources and tools to site administration i.e. Parent Engagement Toolkit.  eCademy’s data is included in the Turlock Unified School District reporting of local indicators.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
15634380000000|Edison Elementary|6|The 2018-2019 California Healthy Kids Survey data showed that 63% of testers felt very connected to the school and 69% of testers said they felt very safe at school.  The district also conducted a digital LCAP survey with all students in grades three through eight in the 2018-2019 school year. The data from this survey showed that 66.1% of students look forward to coming to school each day and 81.3% of students feel safe while they are at school. This local survey will be given annually and results will be shared with the board and all stakeholders. The California Healthy Kids Survey will also be conducted every year with fifth and seventh graders, and results will be shared with all stakeholders.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
10101086085112|Edison-Bethune Charter Academy|6|DATA: We administered the California Healthy Kids Survey and the summary of key indicators are as follows: School Engagement and Support (Average Percent Reporting “Yes, all of the time”) – School Connectedness (5th – 53% and 6th – 47%), Academic Motivation (5th – 67% and 6th – 52%), Caring Adult Relationships (5th – 56% and 6th – 57%), High Expectations (5th – 56% and 6th – 63%), and Meaningful Participation (5th – 24% and 6th – 18%). School Safety – Feel Safe at School (Percentage Combines “Most of the Time” and “All of the Time”) (5th – 74% and 6th – 70%), Been hit or pushed (Percentage Combines “No, Never and Yes, Some of the Time”) (5th – 61% and 6th – 40%), Mean rumors spread about you (Percentage Combines “No, Never and Yes, Some of the Time”) (5th – 65% and 6th – 36%), Been called bad names or mean jokes made about you (Percentage Combines “No, Never and Yes, Some of the Time”) (5th – 77% and 6th – 47%), and Saw a weapon at school (in the past 12 months) (5th – 18% and 6th – 15%). Disciplinary Environment – Students well-behaved (Percentage Combines “Most of the Time” and “All of the Time”) (5th – 59% and 6th – 57%), Students treated fairly when break school rules (5th – 36% and 6th – 66%), and Students treated with respect (5th – 89% and 6th – 91%). Lifetime substance use – Alcohol or drug use (5th – 11% and 6th – 13%), Cigarette Smoking (5th –0% and 6th – 0%), and E-cigarette (5th – 0% and 6th – 0%). We feel this is a good reflection of our student population, and an opportunity to provide support to our students in areas they need the most. MEANING: The dis-aggregated results of the survey revealed the following areas of strength or growth, challenges and barriers: Areas of Strength or Growth: Overall results from both groups of students shows positive feedback. Challenges: Bullying Barriers: None USE: We feel that there is a need to provide more intervention through Joint Opportunities – Hand to Hand Mentoring. Two Mentors will provide support to students and resources to help with bullying and discipline issues in the classroom.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330135723|Ednovate - Brio College Prep|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330132282|Ednovate - East College Prep|6|East College Prep administers quarterly surveys for students to provide feedback on school climate and safety, which is reviewed and reflected upon quarter over quarter and are shared with the Board through our Strategic Plan dashboard. Student responses are consistently positive and indicate that students feel safe in their school and like part of the community. On average across the four surveys administered over the course of the 2018-19 school year, 77% of students expressed positive sentiments about their experiences at East. Questions covered topics including feeling heard and valued in the school by peers and adults alike, feeling like our culture system was fair and clear, feeling safe in the school and that school was clean and welcoming, that the school is preparing them for success in college and career, and that they would recommend the school to their friends. Digging into the data more deeply, results indicate that students feel extremely prepared academically - 86% of students indicated that their school prepares them for success in college and career. Additionally, 83% of students feel respected, supported, and valued by adults at their school, indicating a strong sense of support and community. Though students feel largely that behavioral expectations are clear and consistent, students additionally provided meaningful feedback about ways to continue to build on our caring and accountable culture system, indicating room for continued improvement here. As a result, we have added more explicit goals and metrics around merits to celebrate the wonderful behaviors we’re seeing in our classrooms.All qualitative comments are reviewed in detail and followed up upon, as appropriate. Survey results are used as a part of the strategic planning process to help us make sure we are continuing to listen to our students and build the best and most rigorous student experience possible.|2019-11-15|There have been no concerns relating to safety at any Ednovate campuses. To ensure continued safety, each school administers quarterly surveys to gather input from students and parents on safety amongst other measures. Results are analyzed each quarter and will be reported to the Board. Actionable feedback will be responded to and/or implemented as soon as possible. Genuine concerns for safety will be followed up upon as appropriate.|Met|2019
19647330135715|Ednovate - Esperanza College Prep|6||||Not Met|2019
30103060133983|Ednovate - Legacy College Prep.|6|Legacy College Prep administers quarterly surveys for students to provide feedback on school climate and safety, which is reviewed and reflected upon quarter over quarter and are shared with the Board through our Strategic Plan dashboard. Student responses are consistently positive and indicate that students feel safe in their school and like part of the community. On average across the four surveys administered over the course of the 2018-19 school year, 75% of students expressed positive sentiments about their experiences at Legacy. Questions covered topics including feeling heard and valued in the school by peers and adults alike, feeling like our culture system was fair and clear, feeling safe in the school and that school was clean and welcoming, that the school is preparing them for success in college and career, and that they would recommend the school to their friends. Digging into the data more deeply, our most recent results indicate that students feel extremely prepared academically - 92% of students indicated that their school prepares them for success in college and career. Additionally, 86% of students feel respected, supported, and valued by adults at their school, indicating a strong sense of support and community. Though students feel largely that behavioral expectations are clear and consistent, students additionally provided meaningful feedback about ways to continue to build on our caring and accountable culture system, indicating room for continued improvement here. As a result, we have added more explicit goals and metrics around merits to celebrate the wonderful behaviors we’re seeing in our classrooms. All qualitative comments are reviewed in detail and followed up upon, as appropriate. Survey results are used as a part of the strategic planning process to help us make sure we are continuing to listen to our students and build the best and most rigorous student experience possible.|2019-11-15|There have been no concerns relating to safety at any Ednovate campuses. To ensure continued safety, each school administers quarterly surveys to gather input from students and parents on safety amongst other measures. Results are analyzed each quarter and will be reported to the Board. Actionable feedback will be responded to and/or implemented as soon as possible. Genuine concerns for safety will be followed up upon as appropriate.|Met|2019
19647330125864|Ednovate - USC Hybrid High College Prep|6|USC Hybrid High administers quarterly surveys for students to provide feedback on school climate and safety, which is reviewed and reflected upon quarter over quarter and are shared with the Board through our Strategic Plan dashboard. Student responses are consistently positive and indicate that students feel safe in their school and like part of the community. On average across the four surveys administered over the course of the 2018-19 school year, 83% of students expressed positive sentiments about their experiences at Hybrid. Questions covered topics including feeling heard and valued in the school by peers and adults alike, feeling like our culture system was fair and clear, feeling safe in the school and that school was clean and welcoming, that the school is preparing them for success in college and career, and that they would recommend the school to their friends. Digging into the data more deeply, results indicate that students feel extremely prepared academically - 94% of students indicated that their school prepares them for success in college and career. Additionally, 85% of students feel respected, supported, and valued by adults at their school, indicating a strong sense of support and community. Though students feel largely that behavioral expectations are clear and consistent, students additionally provided meaningful feedback about ways to continue to build on our caring and accountable culture system, indicating room for continued improvement here. As a result, we have added more explicit goals and metrics around merits to celebrate the wonderful behaviors we’re seeing in our classrooms. All qualitative comments are reviewed in detail and followed up upon, as appropriate. Survey results are used as a part of the strategic planning process to help us make sure we are continuing to listen to our students and build the best and most rigorous student experience possible.|2019-11-15|There have been no concerns relating to safety at any Ednovate campuses. To ensure continued safety, each school administers quarterly surveys to gather input from students and parents on safety amongst other measures. Results are analyzed each quarter and will be reported to the Board. Actionable feedback will be responded to and/or implemented as soon as possible. Genuine concerns for safety will be followed up upon as appropriate.|Met|2019
09618530930214|EDUHSD Virtual Academy at Shenandoah|6|In fall of 2018, the El Dorado Union High School Virtual Academy administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to 9th and 11th grade students. Participation rates were 92% for the 9th grade and 93% for 11th grade. Over the past three years, Virtual Academy has seen positive increases in several areas measured by the school climate module of the CHKS. 92% of 9th graders and 89% of 11th graders indicate having caring adult relationships. These numbers continue to hold steady in these ranges over the past 3 years. 77% of students report moderate to high levels of academic motivation and we continue to have over 90% of students (95% of 9th grade and 93% of 11th grade) that report the school maintains high expectations. These items together show a positive correlation for academic success. Virtual Academy has shown substantial gains in student connectedness to school, caring adult relationships, and overall school climate as measured by the California Healthy Kids Survey. As indicated on the California School Climate Index, the Virtual Academy had the highest scores in the district and was in the 91st percentile in the state.  Student wellness and its impact on academic outcomes is of concern as many students have identified as dealing with high levels of stress and suicidal ideation. On the 2018-19 CHKS, 48% of students indicated experiencing feelings of chronic sadness/hopelessness. This only slightly decreased from 50% the year prior. The percent of students admitting to trying vaping (e-cigarette or other device) has stayed comparatively low at 5%, but there was an increase from 18%-33% in students who admit to vaping 4 or more times in their 11th grade year. The entire district saw a dramatic rise in vaping/e-cigarette use over thelast three years.    While Virtual Academy has shown improvement in developing a positive school climate, efforts are needed to address increases in vaping as well as helping students who are experiencing chronic sadness and hopelessness. Over the past year, in conjunction with our district, we have partnered with public and private mental health support providers to increase availability of mental health services on our campus. This fall (2019) the district began to launch "Wellness Centers" designed to provide students easier access to trained counselors as well as other resources to assist student with their mental well-being. Ongoing analysis will take place to determine the effectiveness of these new programs and opportunities for our students.|2019-10-22|Our 9th grade test group in 2017-18 did not have a significant amount of students to report.|Met|2019
30666700101626|Edward B. Cole Academy|6|PARTICIPATION RATE: Edward B. Cole Academy administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey to 47 students in grade 5, an 82% participation rate.    SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the student survey result findings:  The following are the student survey findings: • 74% stated most/all of the time, there is a teacher or some other adult who cares about you. • 56% stated most/all of the time, teachers or other adults at the school make an effort to get to know you. • 56% stated most/all of the time, they feel close to people at school.  • 63% stated most/all of the time they are happy to be at this school.  • 70% stated most/all of the time, they feel like they are part of this school.   • 68% stated most/all of the time, the school building is neat and clean.  • 64% Most/All of the time, “I feel safe at my school.”  The school Principal and school staff will use the findings from the student survey to improve staff and student relationships, continue to teach students problem-solving techniques, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment.    Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rate on the CHKS for the Spring 2019 administration as outlined in the school’s LCAP or seek another evidence-based survey that measures school connectedness and safety as required by the LCAP.|2019-09-16||Met|2019
23656072330272|Eel River Charter|6|School Climate (Priority 6) ERCS is a small, multi-grade classroom school that frequently has fewer than 10 students per grade, therefore ERCS created a 20 question survey that was administered to 17 4-6th grade students. The class was made up of 6 4th graders, 4 5th graders, and 7 6th grade students. 71% are male and 29% are female. 5 are new to the school this year and 3 students have moved between schools in our district in the recent past.  ERCS was pleased to note that 82% reported their parents tell them to do their best at school all of the time(AT) and another 12% most of the time(MT) and 65% reported they try hard to learn at school AT and 35% MT. 35% selected AT,47% chose MT and 18%ST when asked if school work is hard for them do teachers and adults help them. 40% selected AT, 24%MT,24%ST, and12% never when asked if teachers encouraged them to think about the community outside of school. When asked if they feel safe at the school 53% said AT, 35% MT, and 12% some of the time (ST). 47% were happy to be at ERCS AT, 53% MT.  When asked if students treat them nicely 6% said AT, 65% said MT, and 29% said ST. When asked if students were mean to others 47% said only ST and we were pleased to find fewer responses to MT (24%) or AT (18%).  Of course 18% reported they were nice to others AT, 65% MT, 18% ST. When asked about doing interesting activities at school the students responded: 41% AT, 29% MT, and 29% ST.   59% of the students selected that the adults treated them respectfully AT 35% MT, 6% ST. When asked if a teacher will do something to resolve an issue of bullying or mistreatment 52% said AT, 24% said MT, 24% ST. 29% said the school will help resolve conflicts with each other AT, 47% chose MT, 18% ST, and 1 N response. When asked about good attendance 30% responded AT, 35% MT, 35% ST. Those are very troubling numbers. At least 41% reported that they know and follow the school rules AT, and 53% MT, and 1 person ST. 65% of the respondents said they try hard to learn at school AT, 35% MT. 64% selected AT when asked if the teachers and adults at school tell them when they are doing a good job, 24% MT, 12% ST. Surprisingly, the students reported only 18% of their parents helping out at the school AT, 41% MT, 29% ST, and 12% N. School personnel keep attendance at school functions that does not match up with what the students reported in this case. 60 to 90% of the parents are involved in or attend monthly functions at the school. Perhaps the students were thinking only about seeing their parents on campus during the school day, and not taking into consideration other school activities that their parents supported. ERCS would like to have the students feeling safe, respected by adults at the school, happy, and doing interesting things 100% of the time, or at least most of the time. However, there is always a student or two that will have a negative answer for everything or have had a bad day.|2019-09-11||Met|2019
37679910108563|EJE Elementary Academy Charter|6|PARTICIPATION RATE: EJE Elementary School administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) A total of 65 students in grade 5, participated and completed the survey, an overall 79% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings: • 71% stated most/all of the time, there is a teacher or some other adult who cares about you. • 59% stated most/all of the time, teachers or other adults at the school make an effort to get to know you. • 36% stated most/all of the time, they feel close to people at school.  • 52% stated most/all of the time they are happy to be at this school.  • 61% stated most/all of the time, they feel like they are part of this school.   • 48% stated most/all of the time, the school building is neat and clean.  • 62% Most/All of the time, “I feel safe at my school.”  The school Principal and school staff will use the findings from the student survey to improve staff and student relationships, continue to teach students problem-solving techniques, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment..    Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rate on the CHKS for the Spring 2019 administration as outlined in the school’s LCAP or seek another evidence-based survey that measures school connectedness and safety as required by the LCAP.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
37679910119255|EJE Middle Academy|6|Findings Reported:   PARTICIPATION RATE: EJE Middle Academy administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 6-8 students.  A total of 266 students (99.6% participation rate) in grades 6-8 participated and completed the Secondary version of CHKS. Students surveyed also included socio-economically disadvantaged, English Learners and homeless youth.  SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings:  • 75% grade 6; 68% grade 7; and 74% grade 8 – agree there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me.  • 62% grade 6; 61% grade 7; 63% grade 8 – agree there is a teacher or some other adult who notices when I’m not there.  • 75% grade 6; 83% grade 7; 77% grade 8 – agree there is a teacher or some other adult who believes that I will be a success.  • 66% grade 6; 73% grade 7; 72% grade 8 agree/strongly agree they feel close to people at this school.  • 57% grade 6; 59% grade 7; 64% grade 8 are happy to be at this school.  • 62% grade 6, 58% grade 7; and 69% grade 8 agree/strongly agree they feel like they are part of this school.  • 63% grade 6, 58% grade 7; 63% grade 8 agree/strongly agree they feel safe at their school.  The Principal has shared student survey results with staff, students and the governing board.  The school Principal and school staff will use the findings from the student survey to improve staff and student relationships, continue to provide students with opportunities for meaningful input and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647331932623|El Camino Real Charter High|6|School safety and student connectiveness is a high priority at El Camino. The local school climate survey was administered during Fall 2018 to the senior class. Since it is administered at least every other year, it is scheduled to be administered during the 2019-20 academic year.   To continue ensuring school safety and connectedness, the LCAP committee has developed personalized student support, which include: providing non-academic supports that meet the holistic needs of the students, developing professional development track to help teachers reach students from different subgroups, the safety committee meets monthly and includes all stakeholders, students safe school Binders Volume I, II, III are update with the Safety committee and available for all stakeholders, and student surveys and LCAP action steps are embedded in the school culture and utilized as feedback for administration. Metrics in our LCAP Goal 3 were created with purpose to determine the success of our students in these areas.   The following internal data has been collected with the following results to measure pupil engagement: chronic absenteeism rate metric goal was above our goal of 8%: 2018-19 School wide 13.01%, African American 8.70% and Latinos 13.4%. Graduation rate School wide 96%,  African American 92.16% and Latinos 95.22%  Action Steps to ensure personalized support and school connectiveness include, but not limited to: expanding intervention services during after school hours to students of all grades requiring additional support, including online courses, credit recovery, and targeted tutoring and study skills classes, Summer Bridge Program and effectiveness for incoming 9th graders, supporting program for Latino students and African Americans to include College and Career Readiness training which include assemblies, action field trips and guest speakers, La Familia and Black Student Union clubs as social, cultural, academic, and community support for Latino students and their families, continuing Foster Youth/Homeless outreach to parent/foster guardians and group home agencies with informational meetings, input, communicating and building relationships to ensure student support (Foster Youth/Homeless Coordinator will work collaboratively with counseling staff to provide AB167/216/1806 transcript evaluation course placement, advisement support), and continuing to utilize Student Success Team (SST) for struggling students.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
13631230000000|El Centro Elementary|6|A district-wide local school climate survey that captures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness was administered to students in grades four and seven in May 2019. The following percentage of fourth graders and seventh graders, respectively, agreed with these statements: Most of the teaching staff at my school expect all students to work hard=91.81%/93.06%. Most of the teaching staff give me extra help when I need it=77.04%/67.99%. Most of the teaching staff make me excited about learning=67.66%/35.65%. Most of the teaching staff expect me to continue my education after high school=78.39%/85.25%. I keep trying when school work is challenging=88.29%/79.75%. I can become a better student if I work hard=95.01%/92.27%. I feel welcome at my school=80.26%/66.46%. I am safe in hallways, restrooms, and playgrounds at my school=73.00%/71.32%. There are behavior expectations at my school=85.93%/93.68%. There are positive reinforcements for following behavior expectations at my school=77.44%/67.79%. There is an adult whom I trust and can go to for help with a problem at my school=79.85%/70.42%. The following percentage of fourth graders and seventh graders, respectively, agreed with these statements either often or sometimes: Most students at my school treat each other with respect=85.53%/67.88%. Most students at my school treat adults with respect=85.76%/76.08%. My school is kept clean=82.61%/75.64%. My school is calm and in control=78.42%/71.78%. The following percentage of fourth graders and seventh graders, respectively, agreed with these statements either all or most: Do the teachers and other adults at school care about you?=82.16%/66.82%. Do you feel safe at school?=74.75%/67.92%. Do you know where to go for help with a problem?=86.16%/72.36%. The following percentage of fourth graders and seventh graders, respectively, agreed with these statements: Would you recommend your school to your friends who don't go there?=78.58%/66.35%. Do you plan to go to college or some other school after high school?=92.24%/93.86%.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
09100900000000|El Dorado County Office of Education|6|Students were asked to complete Student Stakeholder Surveys. Students responded that they feel safe at school.  80% responded that they were engaged in the learning environment.  The schools hosted School Site Council meetings and invited students and parents to provide input and feedback.  Discussions with stakeholders revealed a priority around self-advocacy for students’ social/emotional well-being, a goal for more opportunities to develop self-advocacy skills, and the need for teaching self-awareness (such as through restorative practices/mindfulness).  While this is a program for incarcerated youth, and parental interactions can sometimes be limited, every effort is made to encourage parent participation.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
09618530000000|El Dorado Union High|6|In fall of 2018, the El Dorado Union High School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to 9th and 11th grade students throughout the district. Participation rates were 90% for the 9th grade and 83% for 11th grade. Over the past three years, the district has seen positive increases in several areas measured by the school climate module of the CHKS. Academic motivation amongst both 9th and 11th graders has risen tremendously with 72% of 9th graders and 66% of 11th graders reporting strong academic motivation. Since the 2016 administration of the CHKS, student indications of having caring adult relationships have risen more than 26 and 29 percentage points for 9th and 11th graders respectively. Students also reported much higher levels of district schools having high expectations of them with 71% of 9th graders and 72% of 11th graders reporting that their school maintains high expectations. This increase in high expectations coupled with high levels of caring adult relationships and academic motivation show a positive correlation for academic success. In the area of substance abuse and mental health, most areas remained fairly unchanged from prior years. The district did see a dramatic rise in vaping/e-cigarette use as reported by the CHKS with use more than doubling amongst 9th grade students (8% in 2016 vs 17% in 2018) and nearly tripling amongst 11th graders (10% in 2016 vs 28% in 2018). 31% of 11th grade females admitted to using vaping or e-cigarette products. Students experiencing chronic sadness and hopelessness continues to be relatively high with 34% of 9th graders and 41% of 11th graders reporting experiencing these feelings over the past year. Another area of great concern is over 20% of all 9th and 11th grade students reported seriously contemplating suicide in the past year. When disaggregating this data by gender, 9th grade females were found to be twice as likely to experience feelings of chronic sadness and hopelessness than males (45% vs 22% respectively). 53% of 11th grade females experienced chronic sadness and hopelessness vs 30% of 11th grade males. While the district has shown a high level of improvement in developing positive school climates, continued efforts are needed to address major increases in vaping as well as helping students who are experiencing chronic sadness and hopelessness, especially female students. Over the past year, the district has partnered with public and private mental health support providers to increase the availability of mental health services on our campuses. In the fall of 2019, the district began the launch of “Wellness Centers” on each school site designed to provide students easier access to trained counselors as well as other resources to assist students with their mental well-being. Ongoing analysis of these efforts and their outcomes is needed to determine their effectiveness.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19645010000000|El Monte City|6|DATA: Over the past five years, El Monte City School District has administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to fifth and seventh grade students. In 2018-2019, 93 percent of seventh graders participated in the survey, while the participation rate for fifth graders stood at 57 percent. We think that the lower participation rate at the fifth grade level is due in part to its active parent consent requirement.  Last year’s results indicate a slight decrease in the percentage of students (5th graders) who describe themselves as having a high level of school connectedness from 58 percent in 2017-2018 to 51 percent in 2018-2019. Certain subsets of data related to this indicator demonstrate a similar pattern. For example, the percentage of students indicating that there is a teacher/adult who cares about them at school decreased from 88 percent to 83 percent. However, other subset items show a positive trend: the percentage of students reporting that teachers/adults have high expectations increased from 80 percent to 85 percent, while the percentage of students who report meaningful participation at school increased from 67 percent to 72 percent, respectively. Seventy four percent of the students report feeling safe at school, a slight drop from 81 percent the previous years.  At the seventh grade level, where 93 percent of the students participated in the survey, we observed similar patterns. 2018-2019 results showed a decrease in the percentage of students reporting a high level of connectedness in school of seven percentage points (58% to 51%, respectively). Seventh grade students reported a slight decrease in the percentage reporting that there is a teacher/adult who cares about them, from 61 percent in 2017-2018 to 58 percent in 2018-2019. Conversely, there is an increase in the percentage of students who report having teachers/adults who have expectations from 77 percent two years ago to 78 years a year ago. The percentage of students reporting feeling safe at school dropped from 75 percent in 2017-2018 to 68 percent last year.  MEANING: At the fifth grade level, data is disaggregated by gender in the area of school safety. Seventy two percent of female students report feeling safe at school, while their male counterparts stand at 68 percent. Thus, we see no significant difference based on gender. Similarly, seventh grade results demonstrate non discernable differences based on gender related to the question of school connectedness( 65 percent female, 67 percent male); and to the question of school safety(66 percent female, 69 percent male). Moreover, data disaggregated by race/ethnicity reveal insignificant differences on these two indicators. Our two largest ethnic groups, Hispanic/Latino and Asian report 67 percent and 64 percent, respectively in the area of school connectedness. In the area of school safety, 66 percent of Hispanic/Latino students report feeling very safe at school, while 72 percent of Asian students report the same.|2019-10-14|USE: If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking?  The district recognizes the importance of school connectedness for students and is launching a major initiative around the theme of building relationships. To support staff in building relationships, the district has provide professional development to school and district administrators, to classroom teachers, and to school support staff. The training is based on identifying and implementing simple, low-impact strategies meant to improve interactions with students, and with other adults.  We are implementing the Leader In Me Curriculum, aligned to Franklin Covey’s Seven Highly Effective Habits, on a district-wide basis, emphasizing both the academic and the social, emotional learning components of the curriculum. To increase student safety, the district is developing comprehensive school safety plans that systematically areas where school safety can be improved. The emphasis is on the development of Tier 1 strategies around school climate and prevention programs, classroom management techniques, school discipline, intervention support, and staff training.|Met|2019
19645190000000|El Monte Union High|6|Over 90% of students completed the Youth Truth survey in Spring 2019. The survey results indicate the following: 1. The majority of students feel safe on campus (89%). 2. Students believe there is a positive culture at all schools where respect is displayed by both students and staff. 3. There was a consistent message regarding a lack of student engagement in the learning process that was revealed by the data. The EMUHSD will continue to work with staff to provide professional learning opportunities on increasing student engagement in the classroom.   The EMUHSD administrators will also continue to conduct walkthroughs to observe student learning and engagement first hand. However, teachers will be able to work together to conduct lesson studies that include strategies to increase student engagement.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
24656800000000|El Nido Elementary|6|El Nido Elementary School District administers a student survey to all students in grades 3rd-8th.  There were 98 students who returned the 18/19 school year survey. This survey asks students to rate a variety of things for the school/district. There are questions on the survey which asked students to rate school safety and school connectedness. Students overall felt safe both inside and outside their classroom such as playgrounds and halls. Students overall felt connected to school. On the survey, students were asked to rate if they felt important within their classrooms, whether they liked school, and if they felt liked at school to which all grades reported positively.  The survey contained a total of 40 questions.  The data for the top seven questions which provide great insight into student's feels about the school and staff are as follows: 1.  I like my school:  38.8% Strongly agree, 24.5% Agree, 33.7% Neutral, 3.1% Disagree, 0% Strongly disagree 2.  Students treat one another with respect: 17.3% Strongly agree, 28.6% Agree, 42.9% Neutral, 6.1% Disagree, 5.1% Strongly disagree 3.  My teachers recognize me when I am kind and helpful:  28.6% Strongly agree, 38.8% Agree, 26.5% Neutral, 5.1% Disagree, 1% Strongly disagree 4.  I feel safe in my classroom:  49% Strongly agree, 26.5% Agree, 19.4% Neutral, 5.1% Disagree, 0% Strongly disagree 5.  I have fun at school:  49% Strongly agree, 27.6% Agree, 21.4% Neutral, 1% Disagree, 1% Strongly disagree 6.  My school respects all cultures:  49% Strongly agree, 30.6% Agree, 17.3% Neutral, 2% Disagree, 1% Strongly disagree 7.  I like attending the After School Program:  39.8% Strongly agree, 15.3% Agree, 24.5% Neutral, 11.2% Disagree, 9.2% Strongly disagree|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647336016869|El Oro Way Charter For Enriched Studies|6|El Oro Way Charter for Enriched Studies administered the 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey during the spring semester to 3rd – 5th graders.  The participation rate for this survey was 97%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the % of students indicating Agree/Strongly Agree are noted next to the question. • I am happy to be at this school? 90% • I feel like I am a part of this school. 89% • I feel accepted for who I am this school? 80% • I feel safe at this school.  92% • The teachers at this school treat students fairly. 90% To build a safe, respectful and caring environment, the school implements the LAUSD School Wide Positive Behavior Intervention and Support Program by systematically teaching desired behaviors in tandem with an incentive program for kindness, respect and helpfulness. Students look forward to and enjoy the weekly announcements highlighting students who have been “caught” being helpful, kind, respectful, and responsible. To further build community, the school collaborates with the PTA to organize community events for school and community participation.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
30666216094874|El Rancho Charter|6|There are several criteria under El Rancho's school climate including technology, safe school information, and parent/student participation in events.  Eighty-five percent of parents agree and 11% somewhat agree that the technology infrastructure meets the needs of our students.  We have turned our focus to upgrading the technology in classrooms with the goal of each core classroom housing a class set of chrome books.  We are about 50% complete in this area.  Results of El Rancho promotes a caring and friendly environment shows 82% agree and 14% somewhat agree.  Results of El Rancho works with my child to help them do their best in school shows 74% agree and 24% somewhat agree.  Results of El Rancho is clean, safe, and in good condition show 85% agree and 12% somewhat agree.  Finally, the results of parents and students are encouraged to participate in school events show 84% agree and 15% somewhat agree.  El Rancho's goal is for all students and parents to feel welcome and for students to want to come to school.  Students are encouraged to participate in the many activities held at lunchtime and after school.  In addition, this year we are incorporating class competitions to get students and staff involved in various activities.  There have been several students verses staff activities including basketball and volleyball games to promote friendly competition.  All of these activities are designed for students to build a connection with our staff and school.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
19645270000000|El Rancho Unified|6|DATA -There is positive growth as it relates to social-emotional learning -Elementary has very strong perceptions of safety and connectedness -Perceptions of safety and connectedness at the secondary level is not consistently strong    MEANING Strengths: -There has been positive growth in areas of school climate as it relates to student attendance and youth resiliency for all grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. Challenges: -Participation rates have been a challenge in obtaining a large enough target population for the necessary data. -The turnover of staff, retraining, and break in relationships/rapport with students has posed challenges that impacted students’ experiences and survey responses. Barriers: -Funding for teacher professional development poses barriers.  -The finite amount of time for the implementation of evidence-based programs is a barrier to implementing programs with fidelity. USE While we have seen progress in school engagement, we have spent a significant amount of time during the 2017-18 and 2018-19 school years to identify causes and impacts for social-emotional learning, which have included focus groups and interviews, in order to identify ways that we can increase current systems and procedures so that all ERUSD students report a high level of connectedness and safety at school.  ERUSD is implementing PBIS, a multi-tiered behavioral framework that drives data-focused decision-making in schools and Restorative Practices. ERUSD currently has a contract with the Los Angeles County Department of Education to provide technical assistance and coaching for PBIS. We will also continue with our existing evidence-based interventions: Character Counts!, Olweus Bullying Prevention Program, Good Behavior Game, Youth Mental Health First Aide, Why Try, Aggression Replacement Training, Gang Resistance Education and Training, and Safe Dates.   The District has seen growth in all areas of social-emotional learning.  The District will continue to provide support through professional development opportunities, materials, and coaching in order to implement evidence-based programs with fidelity.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19645350000000|El Segundo Unified|6|El Segundo Unified School District measures school climate with many informal measures on an ongoing basis. For metrics to analyze and report each year, every school surveys its students annually in the spring. Through this survey we measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness through the California Healthy Kids Survey. In 2018-2019, 98% (5th Grade), 74% (7th Grade) and 70% (11th Grade) indicated they feel safe at school. While student perceptions of school connectedness were 82% (5th Grade), 72% (7th Grade) and 68% (11th Grade). Based on the results we implement programs to help students feel safe and connected at school so they can learn. Some of the programs implemented were WEB (Where everyone belongs) at the middle school, LINK Crew at the high school and CAT (Conflict Action Team) teams at the elementary for peer support.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
30666706119127|El Sol Santa Ana Science and Arts Academy|6|El Sol has administers student surveys to students in grades 6-8th grade to identify areas of improvement for the school climate.  Through the surveys we have discovered the following; 82% of students feel safe at school and connected with a staff member in the school.  The students expressed that they feel safe at home and in the community.  Based on the results the students shared that they would like the school to offer more clubs and after school activities.  El Sol Academy has added more clubs this school year to support the interest of students.  We have added running club, a community volunteer program after school that focuses on current issues that impact the community called CASA.   Another improvement the school has implemented are restorative practices.  The school hired a Dean of Climate and Culture to promote diversity, respect, and inclusivity among the students.  His main focus is to provide a safe and engaging learning environment to the students.  He is achieving this by providing a safe space where students can go and report any issues that are happening in the school.  The students are able to participate in restorative circles to discuss disagreements between students, behavior issues happening in the classrooms and set clear classroom management expectations.  The Dean of Climate and Culture works along the behavioral aide to support with classroom management strategies.  He also works along with stakeholder groups such as parents and community members to provide resources to parents.  Working with parents allows the students to see how the parents and staff members are invested in their education.|2019-06-13|The school will continue to provide resources like - bullying prevention, intervention, and suicide prevention to staff members that work directly with students.  The training and resources is important to support teachers to be better prepared to deal with student issues and support student learning.  A positive school climate is the focus for El Sol to foster student learning and engagement.|Met|2019
15751680000000|El Tejon Unified|6|2018/19 Health Kids Survey Showed that: (Approximately 65% of 7th, 9th, 11th who participated) Report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school: 7th Grade: 57% 9th/11th Grade: 39% Report a high level of academic motivation: 7th Grade: 53% 9th/11th Grade: 28% Report feeling they have adults at school that care about them: 7th Grade: 51% 9th/11th Grade: 25% Report there is a culture of high expectations at school: 7th Grade: 58% 9th/11th Grade: 41% Report feeling they have opportunities for meaningful participation at school: 7th Grade: 30% 9th/11th Grade : 26% Perceive the school as safe or very safe: 7th Grade: 62% 9th/11th Grade: 71% Summary of Key Indicators: ETUSD needs to survey a larger percentage of students in all grade levels to ensure accurate percentages. Students feeling like the have adults that care about them and have the opportunity for meaningful participation are low, while the percent of students feeling safe at school is high. Efforts to try and raise the feeling of school connectedness needs to be addressed.  We also  have decided to begin using an additional survey in addition to the healthy kids survey this year.|2019-10-10|ETUSD is bringing the Safe School Ambassadors program to both the junior high as well as the high school.  We have trained four of our teachers to be presenters for this program.  We are also bringing in a program to help education both parents and students of how to be safe on social media along with the dangers of social media, as well as the effects of prescription pills and vapes.|Met|2019
54105466119291|Eleanor Roosevelt Community Learning Center|6|The climate survey was conducted the prior year.  However, in 2019 we did engage individual students and alumni as we looked at strategic planning for the next three years.  In response to these individual interviews, we have added more enrichment courses in high interest areas, more social events, more flexibility to course schedules, and will be focused on increased support for college and career, and mental health training.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37683380129395|Elevate|6|Findings Reported:   PARTICIPATION RATE: Elevate Elementary administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) A total of 37 students in grade 5, participated and completed the survey, an overall 84% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings:  In the area of school connectedness: • 87% are happy most/all of the time.  • 91% feel safe at the school most/all of the time.  • 81% feel they are part of the school most/all of the time.   In the area of caring adults in school: • 84% students stated that teachers and other adults at the school make an effort to get to know them, most/all of the time.   In the area of Supports for Learning: • 51% agreed that teachers and other adults at the school give students a chance to solve school problems.   In the area of social and emotional learning: • 86% agreed, “the school helps students resolve conflicts with one another,” most/all of the time.  • 91% agreed that “the school teaches students to care about each other and treat each other with respect,” most/all of the time.  • 92% agreed that “the school teaches students to feel responsible for how they act,” most/all of the time.   In the area of Clarify of Rules and Fairness: • 94% agreed that students know what the rules are most/all of the time.   In the area of school responses to bullying: • 89% agreed that “teachers and other adults make it clear that bullying is not allowed,” most/all of the time.  • 87% agreed that “if you tell a teacher you’ve been bullied, the teacher will do something to help,” most/all of the time.  • 59% agreed that “students at the school try to stop bullying when they see it happening,” most/all of the time.   The school Principal and school staff will use the findings from the student survey to continue to teach students problem-solving techniques, improve student to staff relationships, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment. In addition, our school will work to increase student participation in the CHKS survey in Spring 2020, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
48705734830113|Elise P. Buckingham Charter Magnet High|6|To assess school climate, we use the CA Healthy Kids Survey and a local survey in alternating years. We use this data to inform our actions, especially our third LCAP goal, which is to "Continue to develop a positive school climate and engaged school community." Specific actions in our plan were developed based on this data and staff continue to monitor our progress on this goal, as well as developing ways to improve.  Some of the survey data used to inform this goal is shared below: Overall student population: - I feel safe at school - 87.1% - I feel a part of this school - 92.3%  Grade 9: - I feel safe at school - 86% - I feel a part of this school - 83%  Grade 11: - I feel safe at school - 83% - I feel a part of this school - 80%|2019-10-24||Met|2019
36750510138107|Elite Academic Academy - Adult Work Force Investment|6|Elite Academic Acadeconducted a local climate survey in the Spring of 2019. 8%of stakeholders completed the survey. The survey was conducted to determine school engagement and support at Elite Academic Academy. Results were as follows: Strength:  Over 91% agree that Elite Academic Academy provides adequate support that meets the unique academic needs of my student. As an independent study school this is our goal. We work to provide individualized learn plans to best support each and every student. Our goal is to improve this support, resulting in an increase of this response to well over 95% for the 19/20 school year. Most students take time to clearly understand and transition into the independent study environment. It is our goal to ensure that we clearly support this at each learning period.   90.9% agree of stakeholders agree that Elite Academic Academy keeps me informed on the academic progress. We believe this is key to student success. Students need to be constantly updated on student progress. Teachers meet with students at least once a week to determine academic growth and achievement. Each learning period student and teacher collaborate to revise individual learning plans to meet the student’s needs.   95.4% of stakeholders responded that they felt that this school was a welcome and supporting environment. We believe our school is only as good as the staff in which we hire. We pride ourselves on hiring loving, caring staff who work each day to provide a high-quality education for our students. Our teaching staff currently hold valid California Teaching Credentials. 95.4% agree that Elite Academic Academy is a safe school. As an independent study school, our students primarily learn from the safety of their own home. We have highly vetted (FBI/DOJ fingerprinted) highly-qualified supplemental vendors to support our students in receiving enrichment opportunities, ensuring a well-rounded education. We are proud to be an alternative school of choice where our stakeholders feel safe to learn.   Areas of Need:  71.2% of stakeholders agree we need to increase our Career Technical options for students. As a school of choice, we need to work to meet the unique needs of our students. Many of our students choose not to follow the college bound track but would rather work toward a career certificate to help them become employable in a field of their choice upon graduation.  Only 42.4% of stakeholders agreed that we provided adequate support for our EL students. Many responded “neutral” which could have meant they did not have an EL child. However, this showed that we need better inform our stakeholders of our EL Masterplan, the Fast Forward curriculum and our redesignation process.   Overall, we have had a very strong first year, building a culture where students feel supported and safe. We will continue to raise the bar on communicating our efforts to close achievement gaps, ensuring student success.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
36750510136960|Elite Academic Academy - Lucerne|6|Elite Academic Academy conducted a local climate survey in the Spring of 2019. 23.5 % of stakeholders completed the survey. The survey was conducted to determine school engagement and support at Elite Academic Academy. Results were as follows:  Strength:  Over 91% agree that Elite Academic Academy provides adequate support that meets the unique academic needs of my student. As an independent study school this is our goal. We work to provide individualized learn plans to best support each and every student. Our goal is to improve this support, resulting in an increase of this response to well over 95% for the 19/20 school year. Most students take time to clearly understand and transition into the independent study environment. It is our goal to ensure that we clearly support this at each learning period.   90.9% agree of stakeholders agree that Elite Academic Academy keeps me informed on the academic progress of my student. We believe this is key to student success. Students and parents need to be constantly updated on student progress. Teachers meet with students at least once a week to determine academic growth and achievement. Each learning period student, parents, and teacher collaborate to revise individual learning plans to meet the student’s needs.   95.4% of stakeholders responded that they felt that this school was a welcome and supporting environment. We believe our school is only as good as the staff in which we hire. We pride ourselves on hiring loving, caring staff who work each day to provide a high-quality education for our students. Our teaching staff currently hold valid California Teaching Credentials.  95.4% agree that Elite Academic Academy is a safe school. As an independent study school, our students primarily learn from the safety of their own home. We have highly vetted (FBI/DOJ fingerprinted) highly-qualified supplemental vendors to support our students in receiving enrichment opportunities, ensuring a well-rounded education. We are proud to be an alternative school of choice where our stakeholders feel safe to learn.   Areas of Need:  71.2% of stakeholders agree we need to increase our Career Technical options for students. As a school of choice, we need to work to meet the unique needs of our students. Many of our students choose not to follow the college bound track but would rather work toward a career certificate to help them become employable in a field of their choice upon graduation.  Only 42.4% of stakeholders agreed that we provided adequate support for our EL students. Many responded “neutral” which could have meant they did not have an EL child. However, this showed that we need better inform our stakeholders of our EL Masterplan, the Fast Forward curriculum and our redesignation process.   Overall, we have had a very strong first year, building a culture where students feel supported and safe. We will continue to raise the bar on communicating our efforts to close achievement gaps, ensuring student success.|2019-06-06||Met|2019
37682130136978|Elite Academic Academy - Mountain Empire|6|Elite Academic Academy conducted a local climate survey in the Spring of 2019. 23.5 % of stakeholders completed the survey. The survey was conducted to determine school engagement and support at Elite Academic Academy. Results were as follows:  Strength:  Over 91% agree that Elite Academic Academy provides adequate support that meets the unique academic needs of my student. As an independent study school this is our goal. We work to provide individualized learn plans to best support each and every student. Our goal is to improve this support, resulting in an increase of this response to well over 95% for the 19/20 school year. Most students take time to clearly understand and transition into the independent study environment. It is our goal to ensure that we clearly support this at each learning period.   90.9% agree of stakeholders agree that Elite Academic Academy keeps me informed on the academic progress of my student. We believe this is key to student success. Students and parents need to be constantly updated on student progress. Teachers meet with students at least once a week to determine academic growth and achievement. Each learning period student, parents, and teacher collaborate to revise individual learning plans to meet the student’s needs.   95.4% of stakeholders responded that they felt that this school was a welcome and supporting environment. We believe our school is only as good as the staff in which we hire. We pride ourselves on hiring loving, caring staff who work each day to provide a high-quality education for our students. Our teaching staff currently hold valid California Teaching Credentials.  95.4% agree that Elite Academic Academy is a safe school. As an independent study school, our students primarily learn from the safety of their own home. We have highly vetted (FBI/DOJ fingerprinted) highly-qualified supplemental vendors to support our students in receiving enrichment opportunities, ensuring a well-rounded education. We are proud to be an alternative school of choice where our stakeholders feel safe to learn.   Areas of Need:  71.2% of stakeholders agree we need to increase our Career Technical options for students. As a school of choice, we need to work to meet the unique needs of our students. Many of our students choose not to follow the college bound track but would rather work toward a career certificate to help them become employable in a field of their choice upon graduation.  Only 42.4% of stakeholders agreed that we provided adequate support for our EL students. Many responded “neutral” which could have meant they did not have an EL child. However, this showed that we need better inform our stakeholders of our EL Masterplan, the Fast Forward curriculum and our redesignation process.   Overall, we have had a very strong first year, building a culture where students feel supported and safe. We will continue to raise the bar on communicating our efforts to close achievement gaps, ensuring student success.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
34673146112254|Elk Grove Charter|6|While the minimum requirement for LCAP is to administer a student survey about climate, EGCS surveys students, school staff, and parents. EGCS’s culture and climate survey, developed by EGUSD, evaluates culture and climate around the following themes or constructs:  • School Connectedness and Sense of Belonging • Climate of Support for Academic Learning • Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules, and Norms • Safety Overall results show that staff have the most favorable ratings of the school’s culture and climate at 97% (up from 81% the previous year), compared to parents at 89% (down from 92% the previous year), and students at 80% (up from 62% the previous year).  Of the four themes, students rated climate of support for academic learning and safety the highest at 87%. Parents rated safety as the highest theme at 94%. Staff rated climate of support for academic learning the highest at 98%.   Students rated school connectedness/sense of belonging as the lowest of the four themes (62%), parents rated climate of support for academic learning as the lowest (85%), and school staff rated school connectedness/sense of belonging as the lowest (94%).   The primary initiative driving improvement in culture and climate at EGCS is Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS). EGCS monitors and evaluates the PBIS program annually. In the most recent evaluation, the school’s fidelity of implementation increased from 67% in 2016-17 to 77% in 2017-18 and 88% in 2018-19.  The school also is trying to determine how to improve survey response rates for EGUSD-developed and administered surveys and has developed a survey matrix to assist in the implementation of both district and school-based surveys.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
34673140000000|Elk Grove Unified|6|EGUSD surveys students, school staff, and parents annually to capture the quality of school culture and climate around the following themes:  • School Connectedness and Sense of Belonging • Climate of Support for Academic Learning • Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules, and Norms • Safety Student culture and climate ratings increased from 66% in Fall 2017 to 69% in Fall 2018. The 3% increase is generally consistent across ethnicities, ranging from 61% for African American students to 72% for Asian and Filipino students, and student groups, ranging from 61% for Homeless students to 67% for EL students. Among culture and climate themes, students rate School Connectedness and Sense of Belonging lowest at 63% and Climate of Support for Academic Learning highest at 76%. The following two items stand out as strengths: schools promoting academic success (86% for Elementary) and students taking part in classroom discussions (81% for Secondary). Students spreading rumors or lies (51% for Elementary) and students treating teachers with respect (40% for Secondary) stand out as areas for improvement. Staff culture and climate ratings decreased slightly from 85% to 84%. The lowest rated theme was Safety at 73%. Climate of Support for Academic Learning was rated highest at 94%. Strengths include staff believing their school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn (96% strongly agree/agree) and school rules are fair (96%). Areas of improvement are disruptive student behavior (52%) and adults having close personal relationships at their school (66%). Parent ratings increased slightly from 86% to 87%. Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules, and Norms was rated lowest at 83% and Safety highest at 90%. Strengths include parents believing their school notifies them of the time and place of meetings and school events (96%) and school staff treats them with respect (94%). Areas of improvement are parents believing discipline is fair (77%) and school staff welcome their suggestions (70%). The primary districtwide initiative designed to improve school culture and climate is Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), which EGUSD monitors and evaluates annually. Most recently, PBIS implementation increased overall for the district in 2018-19, and increased program implementation was found to be associated with improved student outcomes like off-campus suspensions. In 2019-20, district efforts will focus on sustaining full implementation of the first tier of PBIS at sites and transitioning to the next tier of training and implementation. Another key districtwide initiative targeted at improving school culture and climate for students is promoting educational equity. In 2017-18, the district adopted a 6-year strategic plan to promote equity throughout all aspects of schools. In 2018-19 a new management level position for Educational Equity was created and filled to implement, monitor, and assess equity efforts.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
15634460000000|Elk Hills Elementary|6|There were several leadership transitions during the 18-19 SY that affected overall progress and the overall climate among faculty and students.  As a result, school climate has taken a primary focus during the 19-20 SY.  Surveys were sent home and offered during school-wide events with 35% participation rate; parent teacher organization meetings were inconsistently scheduled with minimal to zero attendance. Survey results, however, noted 94.1% of stakeholders feel a sense of safety and school connectedness.  While it is important students feel connected with the school there is more work in this priority to be accomplished. The first adjustment will be to ensure common alignment with the district's vision, mission, and core values.  This alignment will anchor everyone on a shared vision of college and/or career readiness. Secondly, the superintendent/principal, along with a lead teacher, will attend training focused on creating positive behavior supports and establishing a climate of excellence.  The plan will be to create and implement a culture plan with strategies adopted form the training for the incoming school year that provides multi-tiered supports.  Additional training will be necessary in order to increase awareness through-out the school year while seeking student feedback through-out the process.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
52715140000000|Elkins Elementary|6|Elkins gathers yearly data in the spring using a parent survey which allows open comments from our parent community|2019-10-15||Met|2019
34673220000000|Elverta Joint Elementary|6|The Elverta Joint Elementary School District has chosen to survey students, parents and stakeholders in a manner related to the goals established in the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) in the Local Control and Accountability Plan. Surveys indicate an overall satisfaction with the school climate. The district has implemented many changes since 2012. The Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) program was begun district-wide in 2011. Full implementation of PBIS was realized in 2015. Disciplinary referrals and suspensions have been reduced in each succeeding school year, and there have been zero expulsions from school. There is an annual review and revision of School Safety Plan. The district has markedly increased student supervision at all grade levels before, during, and after school. The Elverta Joint Elementary School District upgraded and added additional security features, including security cameras, at Alpha Middle School, Alpha Charter High School, and Elverta Elementary School in 2016-2017. The district contracts with the Twin Rivers Police Department to provide school resource officers. An MOU and partnership was developed with a neighboring school district for School Attendance and Review Board (SARB) services in 2012. Additionally, an MOU for transportation services, with goal of decreasing absenteeism, was developed with a neighboring school district and implemented in 2012. Further, other initiatives resulted from student and stakeholder input. A dedicated classroom at Elverta Elementary was renovated for an on-campus preschool program in 2016; Little Eagles preschool opened in the spring of 2017. A new website went online at the beginning of the 2016-2017 school year. The district has expanded the enrichment opportunities at all grade levels, including an expanded music and drama program. Multicultural Club was established at Elverta Elementary School. The magnet programs at Alpha Middle School and Alpha Charter High School have resulted in an expansion of programs such as the Jerry Manuel Foundation baseball program, California Comets fast-pitch softball, Alpha Garden Arts, a mobile music studio, and visits from distinguished guests such as Dr. Cornel West, documented Tuskegee Airmen and their families, and various community leaders. It is the goal of the Elverta Joint Elementary School District to actively seek student, parent, and stakeholder input on a continuous basis. As such, the district has an ongoing commitment to survey students, parents and stakeholders in a manner related to the goals established in the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) in the Local Control and Accountability Plan. This input has, and will continue to, drive the goals and initiatives of the district.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647336057988|Emerson Community Charter|6|Emerson participates in the LAUSD School Experience Survey completed by parents, students, and staff. Emerson received 80% favorable responses in the area of Instructional Effectiveness, 77% favorable responses in the area of Classroom Environment, and 78% favorable responses in the area of Academic Support. Emerson will strive to improve in all areas so that favorable responses are 80% and above.|2019-11-04||Met|2019
01611680000000|Emery Unified|6|The SCI for the Middle School in 2019 was 273 -a 33 percentile in the State, 52 percentile for similar schools. The Secondary School SCI was 266, a 28 percentile in State, 28 percentile for similar schools. On the CA Healthy School Survey, the following indicators reflected the local climate for high school and the elementary schools, respectively: School Connectedness: 51/68 Caring Relationships: 54/71 High Expectations: 73/87 Perceived School Safety: 62.5/73  Caring Adults: 25.5/85 Anti-bullying Climate: 72.5/75 It appears that the school climate indicators are higher at the elementary level than at the secondary level. Part of the reason could be that this is self-reporting and that developmentally secondary students are usually more critical than elementary children. This notwithstanding, the district will work on improving students' feelings of school connectedness by focusing on strengthening the relationships between adults and students, conducting student interviews, and creating a more engaging atmosphere in the classrooms.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
36677360128439|Empire Springs Charter|6|During the 2018-19 school year, students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). Student survey results were reported to the school in elementary (grades 3-5), middle school (grades 6-8), and high school (9-12) results groups.  The school analyzed survey results and identified Glows (areas of strength) and Grows (identified areas for growth).  The Glows were: (1) 75% students feel they connect with caring adults in school, (2) 94% student experience high expectations from adults at school, 0% reported usage or alcohol or marijuana.  Identified Grows include:  (1) students report they have had rumors or lies spread about them at school, (2) older students report chronic sad or hopeless feelings, (3) students reported that teachers need more support and training on handling difficult behaviors.  The MTSS leadership had a data analysis meeting and highlighted the summary data for the student center, regarding school culture and student well-being. MTSS administrators sent the full report to the principal and the administrative director of Professional development and made recommendations.  The school is in year 1 of implementing Habits of Success to address the "Springs Has Heart" goal and emphasize the importance of addressing the social emotional needs of our students as well as academics.  In 2017-18, as part of the 2018 LCAP Stakeholder survey, all students were asked to complete 25 questions from the School Climate module of the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS).  Response options were: yes, Neutral/I don’t know, or no.  Positive perception questions focus on topics such as learning in a program that they like, with helpful teachers and interesting activities, within a safe and connected environment.  Student in grades 3-12 were surveyed.  Students responded positively to 77% of the questions, indicating an overall positive perception of the school’s climate.  The two statements with the highest ratings were: “I get along with people who are different than me,” and “I think students enjoy doing things with each other.”  The two statements with the lowest positive ratings were: “I think students pay attention in class,” and “I think students usually follow the rules at school.”  These and more detailed results were reported to the Governing Board during the LCAP process in June 2019.  The school plans to incude a segment of the CHKS again in the 2020-21 school year, meeting the State Priority 6 requirments.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
50710760000000|Empire Union Elementary|6|Local Climate Survey Summary Results are taken from the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Main Report prepared by Health & Human Development Program at WestEd. School Engagement and Supports. *97% of elementary students and 94% of middle school students feel connected to school. *87% of elementary students and 90% of middle school students feel academically motivated. *98% of elementary students and 65% middle school students have relationships with caring adults. *95% of elementary students and 94% middle school students have high expectations. *88% of elementary students and 51% middle school students have meaningful participation in school. School Safety *74% of elementary students and 75% of middle school students feel safe at school. *89% of elementary school students report their teachers and other grown-ups make it clear that bullying is not allowed, and 36% of middle school students report having experienced any harassment or bullying. *2% of elementary students report they have brought a weapon (gun or knife) to school, and 19% of middle school students report having ever seen a weapon on campus. *50% of elementary students feel that students are well-behaved. *54% of elementary students feel they are treated fairly when they break school rules. *84% of elementary students believe they are treated with respect. Lifetime Substance Use *9% of elementary students report having ever used alcohol, including just one or two sips, in their lifetime. *5% of middle school students report having used alcohol in the last 30 days. *4% of middle school students report having used marijuana in the last 30 days *1% of middle school students have tried E-cigarettes in the last 30 days. *<1% of elementary students report having ever smoked a whole cigarette in their lifetime, and 1% of middle school students report currently smoking. *99% of elementary students believe smoking causes great harm. There are few differences within the Empire USD between different ethnic groups with significant populations, primarily Hispanic and white students.|2019-10-03|Additional Comments The Empire Union School District’s focus is to ensure students feel connected to school and safe. This is best accomplished through relationships with caring adults at school. As a result, the district has adopted and continues to implement the “Positive Behavior Intervention and Support" (PBIS) program at every school.  Since the implementation of PBIS within the district, emphasis has been placed more specifically on the areas identified in the survey.  Counselors have been hired for every school site within the district, and students are provided with direct instruction related to Anti-Bullying, Kindness, and Conflict Resolution.|Met|2019
37683380129387|Empower Charter|6|Empower students, parents, and staff take an annual survey (similar to the California Healthy Kids Survey) to measure perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The survey is anonymous, and with a small sample size, it is not possible to disaggregate the data (although we can examine differences between English-speaking and Spanish-speaking parent/guardian surveys; an analysis of these surveys shows no significant variances in perception).   The data showed:  School safety satisfaction rates among students was 85%; among parents/guardian was 97%; among staff was 100% School connectedness satisfaction rates among students was 73%; among parents/guardians was 96%; among staff was 97% Supportive school environment satisfaction rates among students was 84%; among parents/guardians was 95%; among staff was 99%  The scoring of the student surveys was different from that of parents/guardians since the CA Healthy Kids School only counts the category where students report all or most of the time, which explains the variances in the outcomes.  A detailed analysis of the survey data took place by all advisory committees, representing all stakeholders. Strengths that were noted were in student and family connectedness with staff members. A strong sense of care by adults was evident by the survey results. For example, 90.3% of students reported that teachers treat students fairly at school all or most of the time. For the question, "Do teachers and other grown-ups listen when you have something to say" - zero students reported "no/never." Additionally, 92.3% of students reported that teachers or other adults believe they can do a good job all/most of the time. In fact, 100% of students reported that teachers want them to do their best. One-hundred percent of students also reported that the school teaches students to care about each other and treat each other with respect. There were even higher percentages of satisfaction reported by staff and parents/guardians. We believe these positive survey results demonstrate the effectiveness of our Restorative Practices approach.   One area that was noted during the analysis of the data and discussion was the importance of continual reflection and alignment of our Restorative Practices. During the 2018-19 school year, we did not hold our typical mid-year reflection on these practices, and stakeholders felt this was important in order to ensure consistency in practice, especially if there are new team members who join mid-year. As a result, we included a time for this reflection in our professional development calendar and have maintained more ongoing conversations with individual staff members as needed.|2019-10-10|The Accrediting Commission for Schools Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACS WASC) report affirmed that Empower Charter School has a strong and positive school culture in place during its Spring visit.|Met|2019
19753090134619|Empower Generations|6|School climate represents an important lever for improving school safety, the quality of teaching and learning, and the strength of relationships. Empower Generations administers the Gallup Student Poll annually to learners in grades 5-12. The Gallup Student Poll is a survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of our students. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success. Empower Generations met or exceeded U.S. Overall Scores in one of the four assessment categories.  Engagement Grandmean -Empower Generations 3.73 -U.S. Overall 3.85  Hope Grandmean -Empower Generations 3.9 -U.S. Overall 4.20  Entrepreneurial Aspiration Grandmean -Empower Generations 2.63 -U.S. Overall 2.42  Career/Financial Literacy Grandmean -Empower Generations  2.53 -U.S. Overall 3.28  Detailed results for the 2018-2019 Gallup Survey The first category assessed in the Gallup Poll is Engagement: The Involvement in and enthusiasm for school.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important. -I feel safe in this school. -In the last 7 days, someone has told me I have done good work at school. -In the last 7 days, I have learned something interesting at school. -The adults at my school care about me.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -At this school, I get to do what is best every day. -I have a best friend at school. -I have fun at school. -I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.  The Gallup Poll also measures Hope: The Ideas and energy students have for the future.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a mentor who encourages my development.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have many goals. -I have a great future ahead of me. -I know I will graduate from high school. -I can think of many ways to get good grades. -I can find many ways around problems. -I know I will find a good job in the future.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration measures how learners rate themselves on: The talent and energy for building business that survive, thrive, and employ others.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I will invent something that changes the world. -I am learning how to start and run a business. -I have my own business now.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I plan to start my own business.  The last category in the Gallup Poll is Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I am learning how to save and spend money.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a paying job now. -I have a bank account with money in it. -I am involved in at least one activity, such as a club, music, sports or volunteering.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
57105790132464|Empowering Possibilities International Charter|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive culture where Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647330117036|Enadia Way Technology Charter|6|Enadia Way Technology Charter uses the School Experience Survey developed and adopted by the LAUSD. It is now given in electronic form to all students in Grades 4-5. Some of the questions asked have changed significantly from 2017-2018 to 2018-2019, making it difficult to compare certain responses. Student participation (4th-5th graders) is done electronically. The participation rate was 99% in 17-18 and 100% in 18-19. In the area of School Safety, the key learnings are as such: In 17-18, 91% of students felt safe in school and 80% felt safe in the neighborhood around the school. According to the 18-19 survey, both ratings declined to 86% and 70%, respectively. Compared to LAUSD, though, the ratings are higher than the district average. When asked about school connectedness, students’ overall connectedness was 76% in 18-19.  There was no overall connectedness score on the 17-18 survey. In 17-18, 85% of students felt like they were part of this school, and last year 82% felt the same way. 86% of students agree that they feel that teachers care when they are absent.  This is consistent with 17-18, where the ratings were 87%.|2019-10-23|This decline in the feeling of school safety may also be attributed to a possible teacher strike that many of the students were aware was a possibility at the time of the survey.|Met|2019
37680800000000|Encinitas Union Elementary|6|Climate surveys are given to all stakeholder groups and include questions regarding facilities and safety. Also noted is the use of the California Healthy Kids Survey. On the HKS, 96% of students reported that they feel safe at school.  From our parent surveys here is a two year comparison (2018/2019): My child receives a well-balanced education in EUSD including the core subjects as well as enrichment opportunities 83%/ 88%       EUSD engages families and the community using various communication tools, events and opportunities 86%/ 86% EUSD students are able to learn in safe and clean facilities 89%/ 91% EUSD hires, trains and retains high-quality teachers and staff 82%/ 82% EUSD supports exemplary programs, a wide variety of high-quality learning resources, and opportunities to provide personalized learning for the unique needs of diverse groups 74%/ 72%  Based on our feedback, students feel safe at school. We have added a district-wide Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) program this year to ensure continued growth and support in the area of school climate.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647336016935|Encino Charter Elementary|6|The 2018-2019 School Experience Survey was administered during the fall semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate:  School Experience Survey participation rate for students was 97%. • 89% of the students reported that they were happy be at this school. • 91% of the students reported that they feel safe at school. • 83% of the students reported that they feel “accepted for who I am at this school.” • When asked if they felt they were treated fairly by the teachers, 85% of the students responded agree/strongly agree.  Participation rate for the staff was 100%. • 100% of staff reported feeling safe on school grounds during the day. • 91% of staff reported that the school is a supportive and inviting place to work.  Participation rate for the parents was 51%. • 98% of participating parents reported that the teachers treat them with respect. • 89% of participating parents reported that they felt welcome to participate at the school.  Overall, the survey indicated that the students, staff, and parents feel Encino Charter Elementary is a safe, welcoming, and respectful place to learn. The students and staff had high percentage rates of participation in the survey. Although the feedback from parents was positive, we strive to increase the level of parent participation in the survey to more clearly validate the results.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
33672150132498|Encore High School for the Arts - Riverside|6|Overall, Encore students feel safe and engaged on campus.  According to the Healthy Kids Survey, students feel connected with academic motivation from caring adults on campus.  Students feel that Encore provides high expectations academically and socially.  Encore is seen as a safe environment for students. Encore has very healthy extracurricular programs to allow students to be engaged in which they are passionate. Encore has worked diligently to make sure there was more than one way for parents and students to weigh in on school climate.  These results have allowed Encore to make adjustments. In the future, Encore is looking at changes in global education to make adjustments, like independent study – hybrid course tracks and flexible scheduling.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
36750440116707|Encore Jr./Sr. High School for the Performing and Visual Arts|6|Overall, Encore students feel safe and engaged on campus.  According to the Healthy Kids Survey, students feel connected with academic motivation from caring adults on campus.  Students feel that Encore provides high expectations academically and socially.  Encore is seen as a safe environment for students. Encore has very healthy extracurricular programs to allow students to be engaged in which they are passionate. Encore has worked diligently to make sure there was more than one way for parents and students to weigh in on school climate.  These results have allowed Encore to make adjustments. In the future, Encore is looking at changes in global education to make adjustments, like independent study – hybrid course tracks and flexible scheduling.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
19647330120014|Endeavor College Preparatory Charter|6|(DATA) All students at our school take a PBIS School Climate Survey at least three times in a school year. These results identify that 82% of students strongly agree or somewhat agree that school is safe, with little difference between elementary and middle school students. 81% of middle school students and 89% of elementary students name that there’s an adult to go to if they need anything. In terms of connectedness, 71% of students share they like school (agree or strongly agree), with no difference between elementary and middle school.  (MEANING) The data demonstrates that generally students feel safe at school, but there’s a need to increase connectedness. This data correlates with other types of data collected at school via observations, teacher input, family input, and discipline data. There are rules, structures, and systems in place to give clarity to expectations and to provide the necessary incentives and consequences. Students feeling connected is preventing us from having the positive school climate that we strive for. Additionally, a challenge is not having subgroup data to analyze from these surveys. This prevents us from identifying subgroup needs.   (USE) We have committed to improving our school culture through researching and practicing to be more culturally responsive. In the Spring of 2019 we formed a school culture working group to define our vision of school culture. We invested in outside facilitators to help us discuss diversity, race, and inclusion and followed this up with practical strategies for strong classroom management and relationship building. The goal is to create a positive school environment that is supportive of rigorous learning where all participants hold each other to high expectations. We have also committed to adding in subgroup data as part of the survey in order to allow us to desegregate the data. This will allow us to ensure all students are feeling safe and connected.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
45699710000000|Enterprise Elementary|6|School climate surveys were given to students in grades 4-8, staff, and parents; all groups were highly positive. Overall, 79.9% of our students report that they "like school" and 87% "feel safe at school."  Other areas of strength were that 92% of staff feel they have received adequate training in adopted curriculum and 95% report liking the school at which they work.  For parents, 88% report liking the school their child attends and 94% report that the school is well maintained (growth from previous years).  Areas of growth are related to parents feeling unsure if their students are being educated about bullying - only 53% report yes; 33% are unsure; 13% believe their student is not.  This barrier indicates the need for better communication with parents so that they are aware.  We implemented a Facebook page on each school website to try to reach more parents.  Survey results state that parents are aware of sources of information (i.e., handbook, school message phone calls and emails, website).  Site Councils and ELAC groups gave input on best methods of communication.  The district will increase the number of methods used to communicate with parents about bullying education.|2019-11-06|Each school site now has a school counselor and a behavior tech for additional assistance.  The district had a 3% decrease in school suspensions in 2018-19 and will continue to consider alternatives to suspensions through other means of correction.|Met|2019
36678760136952|Entrepreneur High|6||||Not Met|2019
19646911996438|Environmental Charter High|6|Our student responses on the California Healthy Kids Survey indicate an overall increase in school connectedness for all students from 2018 to 2019—40% of students had a high level of connectedness in 2018 whereas 52% had a high level of connectedness in 2019. ECHS has implemented and monitored actions directly related to School Connectedness. The following actions include:   - Calibrating with staff advisory expectations and providing advisory support - Promoting student agency and collecting feedback for after-school programming, as well as promoting and supporting student-generated clubs  - Creating school-wide rituals and celebrations such as FAFSA Submission Celebration, College Commitment Day, Senior Week, etc. - Providing digital access to ECHS’ Incident Form for students to report unfair treatment, problematic behavior, or unsafe situations.  - Distributing a student bulletin with announcements, updates, and useful links - Hiring a school counselor to teach Senior Seminar, a course that provides socio-emotional support for seniors as they navigate the college application process and work towards graduation.  - Sending key staff to comprehensive Restorative Practices training to increase local expertise  Once broken down by cohorts, the class of 2020 cohort indicated a decrease of school connectedness by 5%, while the remaining cohorts indicated an increase. This is in line with a three-year trend that ECHS has noticed where school connectedness decreases in 11th grade. In order to address this trend, 11th-grade advisories are rooted in addressing elements of the school experience that pertain to School Connectedness and focus on mental health and community building during second semester of 11th-grade year.  Our student responses on the California Healthy Kids Survey indicate an overall increase in perception of school safety for all students from 2018 to 2019—61% of students responded “very safe” or “safe” in 2018 compared to 65% of students who responded “very safe” or “safe” in 2019. Once broken down by cohorts, the class of 2020 cohort indicated a decrease of perceived safety at school by 4%, while the remaining cohorts indicated an increase. Additionally, ECHS noticed a significant decrease in “agree” and “strongly agree” responses for “The teachers at this school treat students fairly” scale question from lower-grade levels to upper-grade levels. As a result, ECHS administration is monitoring discipline log entries for responsive intervention prior to escalation to referrals. Furthermore, to address perception of school safety and perception of fairness, ECHS is also implementing the following actions for the 2019-2020 school year:  - Will administer students course evaluations at the end of each semester - Will provide training for counselors and admin in restorative practices  - Will monitor classroom conditions of learning to ensure equitable student treatment through admin walkthroughs aligned to our best practices rubric|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19101990121772|Environmental Charter Middle|6|ECMSG experienced a positive increase across nearly all of the major indicators. There were big increases in the indicators for perceived safety and motivation to go to college. The School Engagement and Support category indicators for 6th grade were particularly positive, and 7th graders had noticeably positive results in the School Safety and Substance Use indicators.  We did not meet our target of 75% on the School Connectivity category indicators. 59% of learners reported strongly agreed/agreed that they feel connected to their school. We exceeded our target of 60% for the Caring Adults category indicators.  64% of learners reported strongly agreed/agreed that they have caring adult relationships at school.  In 2019-2020, the school hired a Dean of Student Culture to lead PBIS implementation and Restorative Justice practices to resolve student conflicts. The PBIS plan includes: hiring a full-time student services coordinator, developing student council, hosting monthly award ceremonies, multiple college field trips, and various events to celebrate culture and heritage. The Dean of Student Culture was certified by the International Institute of Restorative Practices. We aim to leverage their expertise to help students sustain connectivity to their school while resolving interpersonal conflicts. Additionally, the 2019-2020 professional development schedule entails 10 hours of Unconscious Bias training facilitated by The Howard Group. We hope to help adult staff recognize their own biases in order to dissolve their microaggressions towards our learners.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19101990127498|Environmental Charter Middle - Inglewood|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered yearly and analyzed by key school personnel for the purpose of planning and staffing programs in response to key data. The 2018 student survey revealed that students generally feel both safe and connected to school. 72% of students reported that there are adults in school who really care about them, notice when they are absent, and listen to them when they have something to say. 82% of students believe that adults hold high expectations for them academically. 70% of students report feeling connected to the school. These data indicate that more students could still find an adult to connect with and that teachers and school personnel might look for more opportunities to form personal relationships with students. We emphasize this value through our program, which keeps students with the same teachers for the first two years, and with our emphasis on classroom community building.  Safety -- 72% of students feel safe or very safe on campus and 100% of staff either agreed or strongly agreed that our school is a safe place for students. This is the result of multiple efforts through the years. The campus is completely secured during the school day with only one point of ingress/egress. Eight cameras monitor activity on campus. Monthly emergency drills and yearly active shooter training ensure all adults understand processes and roles. A recent survey of 8th graders found that only 3% of students have ever been absent due to perceived safety issues.   While 82% of students say that teachers make it clear that bullying is not tolerated, 30% of students still report having experienced bullying or some sort of harassment. We pay particular attention to bullying or the perception of bullying because middle school is a time when students experience several transitions and during this difficult time bullying increases.   This year, we have hired a Dean of Student Culture who provides leadership in creating and sustaining a positive school culture, implements restorative justice practices, and supports teachers’ classroom management and pedagogy. He also works to educate students on a host of challenges facing middle school students, including bullying, drug awareness, integrity, stewardship, and conflict resolution.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
01100170112607|Envision Academy for Arts & Technology|6|At EA, we administered surveys to collect both student and parent perceptions around school climate. Based on our results, 67% of students responded favorably to questions around school safety and 36% responded favorably to questions about a sense of belonging. . We partnered with Panorama Education to conduct these surveys and were able to compare our survey results across a national benchmark on these school climate indicators. In looking at high schools with a similar FRL population in an urban setting, we found that we are in the 90th percentile on the topic of school safety. At EA, 85% of our students responded favorably about not being bullied online by a classmate, 71%  responded favorably about not getting into physical fights, 82% responded favorably about not having to worry about violence at the school, and 57% responded favorably about feeling respected by other students. Last June, our Leadership Team analyzed the survey data and decided to focus in on the “Sense of Belonging” data. That analysis informed our Equity Professional Development strand for the year, in which we’re focused on increasing staff’s cultural competence in order to support more positive student relationships with teachers and engagement in demanding academic work in classes.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
01100170129403|Epic Charter|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, Epic administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and Epic has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, Epic students rated 3.5 on Student Relationships, which includes evaluating sense of belonging and sense of safety. Based on results from the survey, Epic will continue to iterate on and implement a Strong Start curriculum to ensure strong classroom cultures that support belonging and student learning.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
01612590129403|Epic Charter|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, Epic administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and Epic has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, Epic students rated 3.5 on Student Relationships, which includes evaluating sense of belonging and sense of safety. Based on results from the survey, Epic will continue to iterate on and implement a Strong Start curriculum to ensure strong classroom cultures that support belonging and student learning.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
30103060134239|EPIC Charter (Excellence Performance Innovation Citizenship)|6|The majority of 2018-19 survey respondents indicated positive perceptions of school safety and connectedness: Caring teachers support student success: 67.9% strongly agree; 20.2% agree. School provides a positive learning environment: 64.7% strongly agree; 25.9% agree. School has high expectations: 50% strongly agree; 34.5% agree.  The majority of respondents that did not strongly agree or agree noted “Don’t Know”. This revealed that EPIC can continuously improve on parent/student engagement, communication, and support. This is a constant focus of EPIC’s as the school looks to provide every opportunity for a student’s success in the non-classroom based learning environment.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
29102980130823|EPIC de Cesar Chavez|6|The 2018-19 annual student survey results reported that EPIC students are satisfied with their educational experience. 214 enrolled students responded to the annual EPIC Student survey. Of those students, 85% work either part-time or full-time. 46% are interested in continuing their education at a community college with 18% of those planning to transfer to a university. 60% plan to apply for a better job after earning their high school diploma. 94% of the students indicated that they are interested or may be interested in receiving training in a career pathway, and 42% of those answered that, yes, they would like to own their own businesses.  This data has impacted the planning of curriculum and instruction to include a Career Technical Education component to our course offerings. For the past year committees have complete the exploration and research phase for this growth area and implementation has already started in CTE Agriculture, with plans to expand to Early Childhood Education and Environmental Conservation, among other pathways this year.  All the pathways are scheduled to have a business ownership component in order to meet the students’ interest in having their own businesses.   94.7% of EPIC students responded that the school is helping them to reach their goals. 91.2% have a clear or very clear idea of what they need to do to earn a diploma. 91.8% said that yes, EPIC meets their time and school location needs; 88.9% have a positive or very positive experience in school. 96.2% are satisfied with the classroom atmosphere. 93.3% said that the school meets their academic expectations. 97.6% said that the teacher’s instructional skills met expectations, and 98.6% said that the teachers provided 1:1 help in the classroom. 99% indicated that respect is shown for all students and their cultural differences.   87% of the school’s English Learners responded that they received good or excellent help to improve their English language skills. As more than 80% of students are English Learners, this is a significant finding. EPIC has provided teachers with training in successful instructional practices and updated EL materials. As part of the continuous improvement process, EPIC will continue to provide substantial professional development in the ELD standards and teaching strategies.   75% of the students are aware of the school’s emergency procedures. In order to improve this number, changes were made for the 2019-20 school year. Sites have implemented emergency drills, safety procedures were posted at each site, and collaboration with local law enforcement was initiated.  Only 49.5% of the students responded that the clerical and support staff was helpful, so this is a challenge for the school to provide more training in “customer service” to classified personnel.|2019-09-21|In the 2018-19 school year, 70 students graduated at the end of the first semester in January 2019 and 156 students completed their graduation requirements by the end of the second semester in June 2019 for a total of 226 graduates in the 2018-29 school year. Students are able to graduate mid-term in order to continue with their post-high school educational and career plans.|Met|2019
37680980133991|Epiphany Prep Charter|6|At Epiphany Prep Charter School, Parent and Student Surveys are conducted each year. The results of recent surveys conducted includes the following questions/statements:s • I’m proud to go to this school • I like my school • My teachers know me as an individual • I feel like I belong at this school • There is a teacher, counselor or other staff member at school I can talk to about school or personal problems • I feel safe at school • I have friends at school I can trust to talk to about my problems • When threatening behavior between students arises, the school staff intervene appropriately • Discipline is fair and positive • Students in my school treat each other with respect  In addition, the Annual Parent Survey included strong responses to the questions/statements: • EPCS is a safe and orderly place to learn • The EPCS initiative on anti-bullying this year was effective in bringing awareness to students • The principal takes prompt action when problems occur  The results of the survey questions related to school climate have improved over previous years in most areas; in some areas the percentage of students responding as Strongly Agree and Agree have seen a decrease. Because we recognize the vital connection between school climate on academic achievement Epiphany Prep has responded to these results very aggressively by instituting Restorative Practices, including the use of Community Circles for conflict mediation, coaching for staff on the application of Restorative Practices, regular classroom lessons, and regular Morning Circles. In addition, a character education program includes monthly awards assemblies, a monthly Value Award, and regular character building class sessions. This is all overseen by the Principal, Assistant Principal, Lead School Counselor and School Leads.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330126169|Equitas Academy #2|6|Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned.- Our schools conducts a student survey using Panorama By measuring student perceptions, the Panorama Student Survey gathers feedback from students about their classroom experience. The results validate our work that our emphasis on restorative justice, focus on positive behaviors and celebration of success has created a positive climate. What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers? We are a a charter school with one campus so this is N/A USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking? Building on the success of our current program the school will continue to support student positive behavior through community meetings, morning meetings, daily reporting and restorative conversations.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330129650|Equitas Academy #3 Charter|6|Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned.- Our schools conducts a student survey using Panorama By measuring student perceptions, the Panorama Student Survey gathers feedback from students about their classroom experience. The results validate our work that our emphasis on restorative justice, focus on positive behaviors and celebration of success has created a positive climate. What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers? We are a charter school with one campus so this is N/A USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking? Building on the success of our current program the school will continue to support student positive behavior through community meetings, morning meetings, daily reporting and restorative conversations.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330133686|Equitas Academy 4|6|Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned.- Our schools conducts a student survey using Panorama By measuring student perceptions, the Panorama Student Survey gathers feedback from students about their classroom experience. The results validate our work that our emphasis on restorative justice, focus on positive behaviors and celebration of success has created a positive climate. What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers? We are a charter school with one campus so this is N/A USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking? Building on the success of our current program the school will continue to support student positive behavior through community meetings, morning meetings, daily reporting and restorative conversations.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330119982|Equitas Academy Charter|6|Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned.- Our schools conducts a student survey using Panorama By measuring student perceptions, the Panorama Student Survey gathers feedback from students about their classroom experience. The results validate our work that our emphasis on restorative justice, focus on positive behaviors and celebration of success has created a positive climate. What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers? We are a a charter school with one campus so this is N/A USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking? Building on the success of our current program the school will continue to support student positive behavior through community meetings, morning meetings, daily reporting and restorative conversations.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
48705730135095|Ernest Kimme Charter Academy for Independent Learning|6|School Climate Survey Results indicate 100% Parent satisfaction for School Safety and School Connectness.  Student surveys indicates 93.3% satisfaction with School Safety, and 73% School Connectedness.  The data indicates that student engagement in school activities could be a focus for improvement.  The School Advisory Council included parent input to inform our LCAP and WASC process utilizing survey data regarding school climate, closing the achievement gap and increasing student achievement. "Reason In" questionnaire data indicates that parents are seeking alternatives to traditional school sites, smaller class sizes and more individual attention for their students. In this survey, parents also have the opportunity to volunteer their time and expertise to better our school community. Data collection through parent surveys allows Kimme Charter to provide an easy, quick, and private way for parents to provide feedback and become involved in our decision-making process and direction for improvement. Coupled with in-person parent/student orientation presentations and workshops, this information also allows the school to see where parents see a need for increased attention - in learning, instruction, climate, and professional development. As a resutl, KCAIL has implemented our 1st Generation Initiative - to engage students in on-campus activities, academic supports, and social emotional learning. We continue to collect and disaggregate  data on School Climate through our Site Advisory Council, WASC self-reflection and survey information, as well as collecting anecdotal information through our parent Orientation and Workshop offerings. Increased communication through electronic means, including the Blackboard system, have improved parent and student awareness of events and opportunities on campus.  This continues to be an area of focus for improvement.|2019-10-24|Met|Met|2019
39685020126011|Escalon Charter Academy|6|Escalon Charter Academy administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year.  The survey was most recently administered during the 2017-2018 school year.  The charter is currently administering the survey again this Fall 2019.  Results from this current administration will be made available later this school year.The results are used to measure ECA’s progress on Priority 6.  On the most recent administered survey (2017), 81% of 5th grade students (that completed the survey) indicated that they felt safe at school “most of the time or all of the time.”  By comparison, 72% of 7th grade students and 62% of 9th grade students reported that they perceived school as “very safe or safe.”  A low percentage of 7th and 9th grade students reported being afraid of being beaten up or reported having been in a physical fight.  These results may suggest that few students have a physical fear of being attacked at school.   Parent perception of school safety remains at relatively high levels.  This is evidenced by annual parent survey data, where a small percentage  of the parents that completed the survey indicated that they disagree or strongly disagree with the statement, “my child feels safe and connected to his or her school.”  “With regards to school connectedness, a similar pattern of reported differences was observed throughout the grade levels that completed the survey.  For example 5th and 7th grade students reported a higher level of connectedness than did their 9th grade counterparts.   The charter is exploring further why there may be a drop in reported perceived safety and school connectedness as the students matriculate to higher grade levels.  The District applied for and received a Scaling Up Multi-Tiered Systems of Support cohort 3 grant (through Orange County Department of Education) received Technical Assistance and has used the training to continue to develop PBIS across all school sites.  The charter continues to expand Positive Behavior Intervention Supports at all school sites within the charter.  Recently, middle school administration and a PBIS committee member attended an out of state PBIS conference to strengthen their behavioral program.|2019-10-15|PBIS fidelity implementation continues to be a charter priority as evidenced by LCAP goals and actions.|Met|2019
39685020000000|Escalon Unified|6|Escalon Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year.  The survey was most recently administered during the 2017-2018 school year.  The District is currently administering the survey again this Fall 2019.  Results from this current administration will be made available later this school year.The results are used to measure EUSD’s progress on Priority 6.  On the most recent administered survey (2017), 81% of 5th grade students (that completed the survey) indicated that they felt safe at school “most of the time or all of the time.”  By comparison, 72% of 7th grade students and 62% of 9th grade students reported that they perceived school as “very safe or safe.”  A low percentage of 7th and 9th grade students reported being afraid of being beaten up or reported having been in a physical fight.  These results may suggest that few students have a physical fear of being attacked at school.   Parent perception of school safety remains at relatively high levels.  This is evidenced by annual parent survey data, where a small percentage  of the parents that completed the survey indicated that they disagree or strongly disagree with the statement, “my child feels safe and connected to his or her school.”  “With regards to school connectedness, a similar pattern of reported differences was observed throughout the grade levels that completed the survey.  For example 5th and 7th grade students reported a higher level of connectedness than did their 9th grade counterparts.   The district is exploring further why there may be a drop in reported perceived safety and school connectedness as the students matriculate to higher grade levels.  The District applied for and received a Scaling Up Multi-Tiered Systems of Support cohort 3 grant (through Orange County Department of Education) received Technical Assistance and has used the training to continue to develop PBIS across all school sites.  The district continues to expand Positive Behavior Intervention Supports at all school sites within the district.  Recently, middle school administration and a PBIS committee member attended an out of state PBIS conference to strengthen their behavioral program.|2019-10-15|PBIS fidelity implementation continues to be a District priority as evidenced by LCAP goals and actions.|Met|2019
37681063731023|Escondido Charter High|6|We administered a school climate survey to the 12th grade class at Escondido Charter High School that was based on portions of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) that dealt directly with school safety and connectedness. The questions focused on four main areas: 1) safety and cleanliness of the school, 2) general attitudes toward the school, 3) participation in the decision-making process, and 4) relationships with teachers. Students were asked to rate the school on a five-point scale with five at the positive end.   The overall rating for all categories was 3.7 out of 5. The students overwhelmingly responded that they felt safe on campus, with only 7% in disagreement. The school received a rating of 4.0 out of 5 for the campus being neat and clean. On the questions about general attitudes toward the school, a majority of students expressed positive feelings toward the school, their teachers, and their fellow students. Only 10% felt that they did not have close ties with others on campus. We believe that this is directly related to the small size of the campus and the fact that the classes are limited to 25 or fewer students. The ratings were lower in the areas related to student participation in the decision-making process, which is to be expected, as students do not always have the opportunity to decide what courses are offered or how they are structured. However, even in this area, the average rating was 2.9 out of 5. The school performed well when it came to student relationships with teachers. In this area students gave the school an average rating of 3.9 out of 5 with students strongly agreeing that the teachers wanted them to do their best. The students gave a rating of 4.0 out of 5 for their teachers believing that they would be a success.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37680980000000|Escondido Union|6|The Escondido Union School District annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey for fifth and seventh grade students. EUSD has utilized the District School Climate Report Card to help to identify trends in school climate indicators from 2014-2015 through the 2018-2019 school year. The school climate indicators provide district-level descriptions of several factors that are known to influence learning success in schools. The trends in elementary school show a  decrease since the 2014-2015 in students feeling connected to school, having caring relationships, and opportunities to participate meaningfully in school. Fifth grade students reporting that parents are involved in school has also decreased. Our percentages in each of these domains are below the state average. The school safety indicator showed an increase this last year in fifth grade students feeling safe at school, though we remain 2 percent below the state average. The strengths reside in the areas of social emotional learning supports, and low harassment and bullying.   At middle school, a School Climate Index score is calculated by computing the averages in the areas of supports and engagement, and violence and substance abuse. The EUSD School Climate Index score has decreased by 33 points since the 2016-2017 school year. The EUSD School Climate Index score is  22 points below the state average. Although, the overall School Climate Index score has decreased, last school year there was a positive trend in all subscale results in the area of supports and engagement, and violence and and substance abuse. Strengths were seen in the areas of low harassment and bullying, caring relationships, school safety, and low substance use.  EUSD will continue to support all sites in implementing school wide PBIS. This work is supported by the PBIS TOSA, who helped to lead the first EUSD PBIS Leadership Conference that involved administrators, social workers, and  teacher leaders from each site. The participants reviewed climate and discipline data for their sites, and planned their social emotional learning program. EUSD will also continue to offer professional development to all staff in the areas of trauma informed systems, and restorative practices. EUSD also employs a comprehensive MTSS model. This school year, the School Based Resource Teachers and school social workers have received  training on our data management system that allows the MTSS teams to identify students at risk for academic, attendance and behavioral challenges. This allows sites to offer proactive support through the site interventionists, which include the intervention teachers, as well as school social workers and counselors. The Family Liaisons  connect families to school, and host a series of workshops based on parent feedback. This school year, the Family Engagement online learning library was launched where families can access education online, and receive an endorsement after completing all of the modules.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37681060000000|Escondido Union High|6|Escondido Union High School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every year to 9th and 11th grade students in the fall. The survey captures a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness, and the results are reviewed by the Board of Trustees, district leaders, administration, and counseling staff.   The following are the average percentages of grade 9 students reporting an “Agree or Strongly agree” and “Pretty much true or Very much true” response in School Engagement and Supports: School connectedness (61%), Academic motivation (69%), Caring adult relationships (59%), High expectations (71%), Meaningful participation (29%). The following are the average percentages of grade 11 students reporting an “Agree or Strongly agree” and “Pretty much true or Very much true” response in the same domain: School connectedness (57%), Academic motivation (69%), Caring adult relationships (61%), High expectations (72%), Meaningful participation (29%).   The following are the percentages of grade 9 students reporting in School Safety and Substance Use: School perceived as safe or very safe (60%), Experienced any harassment or bullying (26%), Been in a physical fight (11%), Seen a weapon on campus (10%), been drunk or “high” on drugs on school property, ever (10%). The following are the percentages of grade 11 students reporting in the same domain: School perceived as safe or very safe (58%), Experienced any harassment or bullying (25%), Been in a physical fight (6%), Seen a weapon on campus (10%) been drunk or “high” on drugs on school property, ever (10%).    Overall, 2018-19 results demonstrate positive growth around perceptions around school safety, connectedness, high expectations and academic motivation. An area to address is meaningful student participation.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
43694274330726|Escuela Popular Accelerated Family Learning|6|At Escuela Popular we believe and research shows that good teaching and a suitable learning environment that supports our unique school culture are necessary pre-requisites for student academic and social success.  The teaching qualities valued within our school culture are defined by the community of educators, students, and families from our school. To determine the teaching qualities that define our school culture, Escuela Popular partnered with the Teaching Excellence Network (TEN). TEN is a mobile and web platform that uses a three-step process to engage stakeholders in determining the relevant teaching qualities for a school. The time required to input data into the system by stakeholders is between 4-8 minutes per person. All the data submitted by stakeholders is anonymous and confidential. TEN has been used in 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 in the fall and spring. The school received 12 priorities of teaching excellence that stakeholders determined were important. The stakeholders also provided feedback to individual teachers based on those 12 priorities. The teachers also received qualitative and quantitative feedback from students, families, other teachers, and administrators. This data was used to support the alignment and development of new goals for the LCAP and WASC schoolwide action plan.  The TEN surveys allowed students, families, and teachers in Tk-12 grade to rate the school in the areas of Relationships, Relevance, Responsibility on a scale of 1-10. TK-8: In the Relevance Domain, the school scored 8.8 on qualities such as “Supports students who speak languages other than English”, and 8.5 on “Connects learning to the culture of students and families”.  In the Relationship Domain, the school scored 8.6 on “Shows real care for every student” and 8.4 on “Builds trusting relationships with students”. In the Responsibility Domain, the school scored 8.7 on “Creates supportive academic culture” and 8.8 on “Supports students and families in their home language”.  9-12: In the Relevance Domain, the school scored 9.1 on “Prepares students for college” and 9 on “Connects learning to the culture of students and families”.  In the Relationship Domain, the school scored 8.8 on “Shows real care for every student” and 9 on “Builds trusting relationships with students”.  In the Responsibility Domain, the school scored 9.2 on “Creates supportive academic culture” and 8.3 on “Supports students outside of class”.  Escuela Popular continues to strive to be a safe learning environment for families and a place where a students’ culture and language are appreciated and celebrated. Unfortunately, the TEN platform will no longer be available and the school is currently working on how to capture this important data and to be able to use it to improve our practice as well as capture data frequently during the school year.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
43694270107151|Escuela Popular/Center for Training and Careers, Family Learning|6|At Escuela Popular we believe and research shows that good teaching and a suitable learning environment that supports our unique school culture are necessary pre-requisites for student academic and social success.  The teaching qualities valued within our school culture are defined by the community of educators, students, and families from our school. In order to determine the teaching qualities that define our school culture, Escuela Popular partnered with the Teaching Excellence Network (TEN). TEN is a mobile and web platform that uses a three-step process to engage stakeholders in determining the relevant teaching qualities for a school. The time required to input data into the system by stakeholders is between 4-8 minutes per person. All the data submitted by stakeholders is anonymous and confidential. TEN has been used in 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 in the fall and spring. The school received 12 priorities of teaching excellence that stakeholders determined were important. The stakeholders also provided feedback to individual teachers based on those 12 priorities. The teachers also received qualitative and quantitative feedback from students, families, other teachers, and administrators. This data was used to support the alignment and development of new goals for the LCAP and WASC schoolwide action plan.  The TEN surveys allowed students, families, and teachers in 9-12 grade to rate the school in the areas of Relationships, Relevance, Responsibility on a scale of 1-10.  In the Relevance Domain, the school scored 9.1 on “Prepares students for college” and 9 on “Connects learning to the culture of students and families”.  In the Relationship Domain, the school scored 8.8 on “Shows real care for every student” and 9 on “Builds trusting relationships with students”.  In the Responsibility Domain, the school scored 9.2 on “Creates supportive academic culture” and 8.3 on “Supports students outside of class”.  Escuela Popular continues to strive to be a safe learning environment for families and a place where a students’ culture and language are appreciated and celebrated. Unfortunately, the TEN platform will no longer be available and the school is currently working on how to capture this important data and to be able to use it to improve our practice as well as capture data frequently during the school year.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
57726860000000|Esparto Unified|6|Data:  % of students reporting Sense of Safety: 90% % of students reporting a Feeling of Connectedness: 75% Meaning: The area of Sense of Safety our students is an area of strength for EUSD. However, in the area of connectedness is an area of growth for the district. We need to find ways to relate more to our students.  Use: EUSD plans to survey our students to determine actions we can implement to increase the level of connectedness for our students.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
36677020000000|Etiwanda Elementary|6|] To assess school climate, ESD administers an annual student survey to all students in grades 3-8.  The Student Survey is administered at school with parent permission during the month of October.  In the 2018-19 school year, 7,503 students from the grade span enrollment of 10,022 completed the survey.  The Student Survey consists of forty-eight survey questions, with thirty questions focused on school climate.  The 2018-19 Student Survey results indicate 95% of students agree that school personnel want students to succeed, 83% of students agree they feel safe at school, 87% of students agree that staff strive to keep a bully-free environment, 91% of students agree that students from different backgrounds become friends, and 84% of students would recommend their school to friends.  School connectedness is supported through the district-wide implementation of Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS), Rachel’s Challenge of Random Acts of Kindness program, the Character Counts curriculum and the inclusion of at least two annual family involvement events at each school.  Student surveys are analyzed by the Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP) Advisory Committee which is comprised of administrators, teachers and parents to monitor progress in the area of developing positive school climates and determine if adjustments to LCAP actions should be considered.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
12755150000000|Eureka City Schools|6|LCAP Focus Goal: Increase the level of student physical, mental, and social/emotional health through a multi-tiered system of supports.  Increase to 85% in elementary and raise secondary to 70% for perceived safety   2016-2017 2017-2018 Elementary 68% 73% Secondary 58.7% 63%  Increase to 97% in elementary and raise secondary to 90% for connectedness.   2016-2017 2017-2018 Elementary 92% 94% Secondary 92.1% 88%   For 2019-2020 the following outcomes are planned for student connectedness and safety according to the CHKS:  Attain 97% in elementary and raise secondary to above 90% for connectedness  Attain at 85% in elementary and raise secondary to 70% for perceived safety  In order to meet these planned outcomes, the following actions and services will be implemented:  a. Ensure all teachers are maintaining Physical Education required minutes   b. Support extra-curricular activities which promote physical well-being (e.g. Bike/Running Clubs, Safe Routes to School, Pedestrian Education, etc.)   c. Provide Health Aides   d. Provide GRIP coordinator for secondary students   e. Provide Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) 1.0 FTE   f. Provide CPI Training/De-escalation techniques and training for staff   g. Provide CARE Specialists with .75 TOSA to each elementary site.  h. Maintain level of Staff supervision of students (over 2018-2019 levels) during unstructured times of the school day (e.g. before-school, recess, lunch, after-school)  i. Implement mental health services for students and families through Humboldt Bridges Mental Health grant with following personnel:  Supervising K-12 Mental Health Coordinator, Family Support Coach, and Student Services navigator  j. Utilizing funding from Learning Communities for School Success Program (LCSSP) grant provide a 1.0 FTE TOSA CARE Specialist to coordinate PBIS activities in the District.  k.  Provide a counselor at Zane and Winship.  Part of the responsibilities will be to improve school climate by addressing Tier II and Tier III behaviors|2019-10-22||Met|2019
31668290000000|Eureka Union|6|Eureka Union School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to all Grades 5 and 7 students. Results indicate high levels of school connectedness among students (79% of fifth graders and 78% of seventh graders). Students also indicated feeling safe (88% of fifth graders and 83% of seventh graders) and having access to caring adults at school (75% of fifth graders and 75% of seventh graders). The findings from the survey were shared with stakeholders, including the governing board in May 2019.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
41690620119503|Everest Public High|6|Everest believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Everest take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  It also maps to our relatively low number of suspensions and expulsions.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330129858|Everest Value|6|In 2018-19 the Value Schools organization adopted a new local climate survey from the California Healthy Kids Survey to standardize the data across its four campuses.  The survey was handed out to all students at the end of the 2018-2019 school year and the results provided a student perspective on safety and the connectedness to the school.  The survey was distributed to  students in grades 3rd-8th, which make up for 67% of the school's student population. After analyzing student responses, the following data was received through this survey:  62% of students believe that they feel safe at their school.   76% of students reported that faculty and staff at Everest make it clear that bullying is not tolerated  64% of students believe that they have an adult at their school that they can trust with their problems.   The results of this survey show that a high number of students feel safe at Everest.  In regards to bullying, a high number of students are aware that bullying is not allowed and that if they felt that it was a problem, a teacher or staff member would address it.  This data has encouraged the school to make further efforts on bullying prevention by continuously reminding students that there is a zero tolerance policy.  According to these student responses, students feel safe in regards to their surroundings as well as confiding in adults at Everest. In respect to making sure that students feel a connection with the school, the following data was received:   60% of students feel like that are part of the school and that they belong to the school community  70% of students believe that their school encourages them to help their community.    88% of students reported that they have done between 1-15 hours of community service to better their school.  12% of students reported that they have completed more than 15 hours  69% of students believe that helping their community makes them feel good about themselves  Based on the data shown, a high number of students feel connected to Everest.  Students at Everest also indicated that their school encourages them to participate in helping their community. Students express that they participate in providing hours of community service either in their school community or in their local community. Some projects that students partake in involve performing community service throughout the year, from feeding the homeless at shelters to cleaning up trash on beaches. Overall, the school strives to make a healthy and positive impact by providing students with ample opportunities to engage themselves in giving back to their community.  After analyzing the climate survey data, Everest has taken notes on what questions can be added in the future to more accurately reflect the school climates  Furthermore, the Value schools the organization will seek to stay consistent in providing all schools with the same climate survey.|2019-10-25|The LEA believes that the school-wide surveys are a vital resource to help understand the progress of school climate.  The surveys are conducted and analyzed to reflect the students, teachers, and parents perspective on school climate during the school year.  Questions in the school wide survey is consistent across all value schools.|Met|2019
43694350000000|Evergreen Elementary|6|Elementary Students Grades 3-6: Students at Evergreen School District were surveyed in February 2019 about their perceptions of their schools in terms of Student Engagement, Academic Expectations, Personal Relationships, Instructional Methods, and Classroom Culture.    On an absolute basis, students at the typical Evergreen School District elementary school provided the highest ratings on Instructional Methods and Classroom Culture, while the lowest rated topics were Student Engagement and Academic Rigor.  The response rate for this round of surveying at Evergreen School District was 93%.  Because this survey is administered anonymously and because elementary students are not asked to self-report ethnicity, it is not possible to disaggregate by ethnic subgroup.  Our data is compared to a national sample, and therefore presented as a percentile ranking.  Middle School Students Grade 7-8: Students at Evergreen School District middle schools were surveyed in February 2019 about their perceptions of their school in terms of Student Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships with Teachers, Relationships with Peers, and School Culture.    On an absolute basis, students at the typical Evergreen School District middle school provided the highest ratings on Relationships with Peers and School Culture, while the lowest rated topics were Student Engagement and Academic Rigor.   The response rate for this round of surveying at Evergreen School District was 97%.  While this survey is administered anonymously, students are asked to self-report ethnicity.  Therefore, it is possible to disaggregate by self-reported ethnic subgroup.  Our data is compared to a national sample, and therefore presented as a percentile ranking.  A full data analysis can be viewed at https://www.eesd.org/uploaded/documents/caaspp/2019_Local_Indicator_Update_Web_Version_CA_Dashboard.pdf.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
52715220132597|Evergreen Institute of Excellence|6|Evergreen Institute of Excellence (EIE) is a Personalized Learning, non-classroom based public charter school. The majority of a student's daily instruction occurs at home with parents, in the community through enrichment/extracurricular vendors and/or through attendance at our local community college. EIE has opportunities for our students to be on our authorizing district's school sites for enrichment classes, assessments, tutoring, community building and special education services. EIE operates under the school site's Safe School Plan, of the campus we reside on, to ensure student and staff safety.  In order to measure the school's local climate and stakeholder perceptions, EIE developed surveys for parents of students in grades TK-12, 4th-5th grade students, middle school and high school students (6th-12th). Included were questions designed and tailored to the uniqueness of our school programs and student population. The most recent School Climate Survey given Fall 2018 revealed: The 4th-5th Grades School Climate survey results indicated the majority of the students feel safe while on campus with 100% responding that grown-up at school care about them.  The 6th-12th Grade School Climate survey results indicated 100% feel safe on campus with 80% expressing grown ups at school care about them.  The Parent Climate results report 94% of their children feel safe while at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
52715220000000|Evergreen Union|6|The Evergreen Union School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey. The most recent administration of the survey was done in the 2017/18 school year and given only to 5th grade students. The results from our 2013/14 survey report the following: 99% of 7th grade students reported either a "Moderate" or "High" connectedness to our school. 77% of 7th grade students reported a "High" perception that our school was very safe or safe. We administered the same survey in 17/18 to 5th grade students with the following results: 95% of 5th grade students reported a High or Moderate Connectedness to our school and 86% reported feeling safe at school. Additionally in our annual LCAP survey parents and staff rated the following question a 4.16 out of 5 "EUSD schools are safe and maintain a positive, supportive climate." We will adminstering the next Healthy Kids Survey in the Fall of 2019.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
36677360139576|Excel Academy Charter|6|Data:  Parent Participants  with students in student groups: English Learner (EL) 45%, Low Socio (LI) 12%, Student w Disability (SWD) 12%,  N/A 31%  Parent Participant Ethnicity: White 29%, Hispanic/Latino 35.5%, Two or More 19.4%, Asian 6.5%, Pac Islander 3.1%, Declined to State 6.5%  Student Participants: English Learner 36%, Student with Disability 17%, Low Socio 12.5%, Did not Choose 35% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rating of our school. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and, the school's building partnerships with parents and students. Use: Continue staff collaboration on strategies to invite and encourage all parent groups to engage and participate in partnership opportunities.  Overall % in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of Students 96% Positive/Safe School Climate 96% Establishing Connections 100% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 100% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 100% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 94% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rate with the school educational program, Use: Collaborate with teachers and counselors to identify strategies to improve establishing connections Staff collaboration on strategies for communicating the various ways that parents can participate and provide input and ways to encourage/invite parent participation/partnership.  Data:  Positive School Climate Student Survey Results Overall % in agreement with: School's High Expectations for Student Performance 95% School Safety 95% Respectful School Climate 89% Caring Adults at School that Support Students 95% Social and Emotional Learning 100% Meaning: Strength in overall satisfaction with school. Use: Continue to collaborate  and identify training on maintaining a positive school climate. Identify areas to improve student perception of caring adults at school and provide collaboration and training time for teachers to develop communication skills with students to improve perception of students feeling valued and respected.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37754160139386|Excel Academy Charter|6|Data:  Parent Participants  with students in student groups: English Learner (EL) 28%, Low Socioeconomic (LI) 15%, Student with Disability (SWD) 8%,  N/A 49% Parent Survey Participant Ethnicity: White 38%, Hispanic/Latino 15%, Two or More 20%, Asian 2%, Af American 4%, Filipino 2%, Declined to State 19%  Student Participants: EL 24.2%, Students with a Disability 9.8%, Low Socio-Economic 30% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rating of our school. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and, the school's building partnerships with parents and students.  Overall % in agreement with: Improving the Academic Achievement of Students 96.5% Positive/Safe School Climate 98.8% Establishing Connections 95.3% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 98.5% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 98.5% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 99% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rate with the school program, Use: Collaborate with teachers and counselors to identify strategies to improve establishing connections.  Data:  Positive School Climate Student Survey Results Overall % in agreement with: School's High Expectations for Student Performance 100% School Safety 100% Respectful School Climate 100% Caring Adults at School that Support Students 100% Social and Emotional Learning 100% Meaning: Strength in overall satisfaction with school Use: Continue to collaborate  and identify training on maintaining a positive school climate.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647330137554|Excelencia Charter Academy|6|N/A|2019-10-02|Excelencia is only in its second year of operation and thus, we have not administered a school climate survey to date.  Our School Site Council will create this survey at our December 2019 meeting and we will administer to our first graders in January 2020.|Met|2019
36103633630761|Excelsior Charter|6|Excelsior Charter Schools (ECS) administers an internally developed school survey annually to students in order to measure school safety, climate, and connectedness. The survey was developed with the input of all stakeholders and is modified as necessary to meet the needs of the school community. The survey results are shared with the ECS Governing Board annually. Survey results are used to assist ECS with strategic planning and to inform the school's annual LCAP update.  749 students responded to the 2018-19 school survey. Key findings related to school safety and connectedness are as follows: 91.4% of students indicated they felt safe on campus. 86% of students indicated they would recommend ECS to other students. 89% of students indicated that ECS is preparing them for life after high school. 92% of students indicated that their teacher shows concern for them as a person. 93% of students indicated that ECS teachers want students to be successful and reach their potential.  The findings in the school survey from 2018 suggest that students overall feel supported and safe while attending Excelsior Charter Schools.  The fact that the surveys were not met with 100% confidence in all areas suggests that there is room for growth.  Additionally, Excelsior Charter Schools student participation rate within the survey could increase to further reveal student opinions that were not included.  Based upon these findings, Excelsior has shared this information within their regular meetings with all stakeholders to gain input for additional actions necessary for further improvement.|2019-01-23||Met|2019
33103300137869|Excelsior Charter School Corona-Norco|6|Excelsior Charter Schools Corona-Norco administers an internally developed school survey annually to students in order to measure school safety, climate, and connectedness. The survey was developed with the input of all stakeholders and is modified as necessary to meet the needs of the school community. The survey results are shared with the Excelsior Governing Board annually. Survey results are used to assist Excelsior with strategic planning and to inform the school's annual LCAP update.  Key findings related to school safety and connectedness are as follows: 96% of students indicated they felt safe on campus. 86% of students indicated they would recommend ECS to other students. 93% of students believe their facilitator encourages them to take responsibility for their education. 95% of students indicated that ECS teachers want students to be successful and reach their potential.  The findings in the school survey from 2018 suggest that students overall feel supported and safe while attending Excelsior.  The fact that the surveys were not met with 100% confidence in all areas suggests that there is room for growth.  Additionally, Excelsior's student participation rate within the survey could increase to further reveal student opinions that were not included.  Based upon these findings, Excelsior has shared this information within their regular meetings with all stakeholders to gain input for additional actions necessary for further improvement.|2019-01-23||Met|2019
54768360000000|Exeter Unified|6|Exeter Unified School District administers our own local Climate Survey administered to all students annually in grades 4-12. 1,610 students participated in 2019.  76% of students agree students and staff are safe at school. 74% of students agree the school engages students in positive activities that lead to academic success. 63% of students agree the district keeps school facilities well maintained.  The following actions are outlined in the district's Local Control Accountability Plan in response to the data. Improve and maintain school facilities that support increased student and staff safety and utilization. Utilize technology support staff to ensure the implementation of the three year digital learning plan. Maintain extended year services including summer school to provide remedial and enrichment opportunities for students. Utilize licensed marriage family therapist (LMFT) to provide counseling to students with mental health needs. Contribute to a positive school culture through support of student safety, attendance, dropout, graduation, and suspension with the following positions and services: School Resource Officer, athletic drug testing, instructional aides/yard duty, counselors, and library technicians. Create a Community Day School (CDS) for elementary and middle school students to provide a differentiated environment for students with intense behavioral and emotional needs|2019-06-12||Met|2019
19647330124198|Extera Public|6|Extera Public School adapted and administered the LAUSD School Experience Survey for grades 5 and 7 during the Fall of 2018. We anonymously administered the survey in order to secure more student participation, thus we do not have student group data that is segregated out. Our findings are documented below: The following questions were the most highly rated questions for each section of the elementary survey (5th) and middle school survey (7th): 5th Grade Findings: Bullying-Do other kids at this school bully you online?, and 98.4% of students responded ”No, never.” Connectedness and Safety-If you told a teacher or other adult at this school that another student was bullying you, would he or she try to help you?, and 93.5% of students responded “Yes, all of the time,”  and “Yes, most of the time.” Student Social Awareness-During the past 30 days, how well did you get along with students who are different from you?, and 95.1% of students responded, “Got along extremely well” and “Got along pretty well.” 7th Grade Findings:  Academic Focus-My teachers work hard to help me with my schoolwork when I need it, and 82.3% of students responded ”Strongly agree” and “Agree.” Cognitive Engagement-In my classes, I work on projects or assignments with other students, and 84.4% of students responded “Almost all of the time” and “Often.” Bullying-Do other kids at this school bully you online?, and 92.5% of students responded ”0 times.”  Areas of improvement can be gleaned from the three lowest rated questions on both surveys: 1. During the past 30 days, how often did you compliment others’ accomplishments? 59% of 5th graders responded positively, but 41% of 5th grade students responded negatively. For 7th grade, 27.4% of students responded positively, but 72.6% responded negatively. 2. Do students have a voice in decision making at this school? 42.7% of 5th grade students responded positively, but 57.3% responded negatively. For 7th grade, 41.2% of students responded positively, but 58.8% responded negatively. 3. Do you participate in extra-curricular activities offered through the school, such as schools clubs or organizations? 55.8% of 5th grade students responded positively, but 44.2% responded negatively. For 7th grade, 25.5% of students responded positively, but 74.5% responded negatively. Our school can work to improve student validation of each other, giving students more voice and choice at school, and providing more on-campus school clubs and extra-curricular activities.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647330128132|Extera Public School No. 2|6|Extera Public School #2 adapted and administered the LAUSD School Experience Survey for grade 5 during the Fall of 2018. We anonymously administered the survey in order to secure more student participation, thus we do not have student group data that is segregated out. Our findings are documented below:  The following questions were the most highly rated questions for each section of the elementary survey (5th): Academic Focus Do teachers work hard to help you with your schoolwork when you need it?, and 100% of students responded “Yes, all of the time,”  and “Yes, most of the time.”   Cognitive Engagement In my classes, I work on projects or assignments with other students, and 82.7% of students responded “Almost all of the time” and “Often.”  Future Orientation School is important for achieving my future goals, and 86.2% of students responded ”Strongly agree” and “Agree.”  Bullying Do other kids at this school bully you online?, and 75.9% of students responded ”No, never.”  Connectedness and Safety Do teachers care if you are absent from school?, and 89.6% of students responded “Yes, all of the time,”  and “Yes, most of the time.”   Expectations for Behavior Do students treat adults at this school with respect?, and 82.8% of students responded “Yes, all of the time,”  and “Yes, most of the time.”   Opportunities for Participation and Leadership Do teachers encourage students to make decisions?, and 89.6% of students responded “Yes, all of the time,”  and “Yes, most of the time.”   Growth Mindset I can do well on all my tests, even when they’re difficult, and 79.3% of students responded, “Completely confident” and “Mostly confident.” Self-efficacy I can meet all the learning goals my teachers set, and 75.8% of students responded, “Completely confident” and “Mostly confident.”  Self-management I remembered and followed directions, and 93.1% of students responded, “Almost all of the time” and “Often”  Student Social Awareness During the past 30 days, how much did you care about other people’s feelings?, and 75.9% of students responded, “Cared a tremendous amount” and “Cared quite a bit.”  Areas of improvement can be gleaned from the three lowest rated questions on both surveys: 1. During the past 30 days, how often did you compliment others’ accomplishments? 51.7% of 5th graders responded positively, but 48.3% of 5th grade students responded negatively.  2. Do students have a voice in decision making at this school? 44.8% of 5th grade students responded positively, but 55.2% responded negatively.  3. Are students treated fairly when they break school rules? 48.2% of 5th grade students responded positively, but 51.8% responded negatively.  Our school can work to improve student validation of each other, giving students more voice and choice at school, and messaging to our students that restorative practices don’t particularly look the same for every student.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
20652430107938|Ezequiel Tafoya Alvarado Academy|6|Standard:  ETAA administers a local climate survey in the Springtime of every year.  This survey gives us a measure of perceptions about school safety and connectedness from a parent lens.   Summary:  ETAA administered a school climate survey in March of 2019 ETAA administers a local climate survey in the Springtime of every year.  This survey gives us a measure of perceptions from the parents’ point of view about school safety and connectedness.  The March 2019 survey informed us that we are rated by parents with an overall 85%.  The highest individual rating was a 91.5% and this was in relation to how their child is safe going to and from school.  The next rating was an 88.9% showing us that parents feel the learning environment of their child’s school is excellent.  Parents shared positive comments and very good suggestions when asked if they wanted to share something else with an open-ended question. They like the way things are more organized this year (2018-2019).  They suggested we keep up the great work and also our communication is much better.  Some expectations were to have different award ceremonies for most improved student.  Another, expectation is that parents should be the ones to vote for school board members representation, more parking spaces and added parent involvement.   Our lowest score (78.2%) was family members taking part in school activities.  We received a 78.2% in the area of parent engagement and we plan to address it.  To remedy some of the deficits, we are in the process of expanding our school to include enough room for large parent meetings.  We are planning to create “talleres” workshops to target the needs of our parents.  Part of the 2019-2020 remedies will focus on raising student achievement by creating more opportunities for the parents to be involved.|2019-10-24|ETAA started the beginning stages of focusing on equity and culture. The purpose of this strategy started with a presentation (2019-2020) of an in-depth knowledge of the students' diversity, their specific needs, bringing awareness of cultures within the Mexican culture.  Teachers were given a cultural diversity lens, or tool, to view students attending ETAA.  In July 2019 a phone survey was administered to 111 parents who were known to speak Spanish/English or Mixteco.  ETAA has within the student Mexican community a diverse population.  We contacted 111 Spanish or bilingual Spanish/English/Mixtec speaking families from ETAA.  The results were shared with our teachers and staff.  Also, from the phone survey; 47.7% identify themselves as Mexican descent, mostly bilingual 50.4% spoke Mixtec/Spanish and many spoke both English/Spanish.  It was found that we have a large percentage of students whose family came from Oaxaca, Mexico.  The Oaxaqueno community identified spoke other language besides Spanish.  We found 22.5% spoke Mixtec bajo and 27.9% spoke Mixtec alto and a small minority spoke Zapoteco and Triqui.  This provided a new lens to plan for our students in the future. Upon finding out the specifics, administration gathered some relevant information and invited guest speakers of the Oaxaqueño community. This community has trauma and generational shame, they have been marginalized in Mexico and the United States. This is similar to two other minority students.|Met|2019
15634610000000|Fairfax Elementary|6|The Fairfax School District administers an annual Student Survey to all students in grades fifth through eighth. The survey provides a valid measure of perception of school safety and connectedness. The survey was deployed in January 2018 and the participation rate is as follows: 850 student surveys completed which represented 73% of the student population in grades 5-8. The School Climate results are as follows (Agree): I look forward to coming to school everyday (67%) a decrease from 77% the previous year. My school provides me with a good education (91%) a decrease from 93%. I feel safe at school (74%) a decrease from 78%. I can talk to a staff member at school if I have an issue (68%) a decrease from 71% The school staff cares about my success (68%) a decrease from 70%. My school offers extra help outside the regular school day (73%) a decrease from 74%. Information was provided to the Fairfax Board of Trustees on March 14, 2019 and October 10, 2019.  The Fairfax School District is committed to providing all students a safe learning environment in which all students can achieve to their fullest potential. Positive Behavioral Intervention & Supports(PBIS) has been implemented throughout the district. Additionally, each school site has added a school counselor to support the needs of students and their families. The focus on student engagement is visible in the School Wide AVID Program and the implementation of Safe School Ambassadors at Fairfax Junior High.  Weekly grade level collaboration meetings focus on the use of data to drive instruction and give teachers the opportunity to share best instructional practices.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
48705400000000|Fairfield-Suisun Unified|6|Students will take CHKS in the 2019/20 school year.  Findings from the 2017/18 school year are as follows:  School Connectedness Key learnings from the 2017-2018 results show that as students progress through each grade level their perception of school connectedness decreases:      - 69% of 5th graders, 50% of 7th graders, 44% of 9th graders, 40% of 11th graders, and 37% of all students in nontraditional schools reported strongly agreeing or agreeing to feeling connected to school.  Additional survey measures used to determine student perceptions of school connectedness are reported below. Despite the 3% increase in meaningful participation between 9th and 11th grade, these percentages follow the same progressive decline.      - Caring Adult Relationship: 69% of 5th, 65% of 7th, 57% of 9th, 61% of 11th graders and 57% of all students at nontraditional sites.       - Meaningful Participation: 41% of 5th, 25% of 7th, 20% of 9th, 23% of 11th graders and 23% of all students at nontraditional sites.       - Parent Involvement: 81% of 5th, 47% of 7th, 35% of 9th, 31% of 11th graders and 33% of all students at nontraditional sites.  School Safety Key learnings from the 2017-2018 results show that as students progress through each grade level their perception of school safety decreases:        - 75% of 5th graders, 51% of 7th graders, 42% of 9th graders, 34% of 11th graders, and 35% of all students in nontraditional schools reported feeling very safe or safe at school.  Additional survey measures used to determine student perceptions of school safety are reported below. Contrary to the perception rates reported above regarding students reporting they feel less safe at school as they get older, the percentages for the below measures decline with each grade progression, which would make it appear as though school is actually “safer” as students get older:       - Afraid of being beat up: 23% of 7th, 13% of 9th, 9% of 11th graders and 12% of all students at nontraditional sites. *question not asked of 5th graders      - Been in a physical fight (or been hit/pushed for 5th grade): 47% of 5th, 20% of 7th, 9% of 9th, 7% of 11th graders and 22% of all students at nontraditional sites.       - Experienced any harassment or bullying: 55% of 5th, 40% of 7th, 29% of 9th, 28% of 11th graders and 26% of all students at nontraditional sites.      - Seen a weapon on campus: 16% of 5th, 15% of 7th, 16% of 9th, 13% of 11th graders and 14% of all students at nontraditional sites.  Further, data trends reveal student perception of school connectedness declines in all grades surveyed an average of 3% since 2015-2016; and school safety an average of 3.6%. The decline of percentages for both school connectedness and school safety reveal these two domains as areas of growth for FSUSD and are a focus of our Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) teams.|2019-10-24|Despite the decline in perception rates around school connectedness and safety, FSUSD has improved school climate as evidenced by a reduction in the number of suspensions by 0.82% from the 2018-2019 school year. Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) is one reason we attribute to this gain as PBIS implementation continues to progress at the Tier I and II levels.  FSUSD’s next step is to merge PBIS with Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS).    CHKS is named in FSUSD’s LCAP to measure the third goal of refining and expanding targeted interventions and supports for students’ academic, health, and social-emotional development.  This metric, coupled with WestEd’s new California School Climate, Health, and Learning Surveys (CalSCHLS) data dashboard, will help FSUSD identify and target students’ needs, use these data to inform site plans, and better monitor progress so that actions/goals may be adjusted. For example, forty-eight percent (14) of school sites opt to continue spending site funds to partner with the County Educational Office and County Mental Health to provide positive school climate services such as individual and group social and emotional counseling sessions.  To view the full report that was presented to the FSUSD Governing Board during the October 24, 2019 board meeting, cut and paste the following link: http://go.boarddocs.com/ca/fsusd/Board.nsf/goto?open&id=BG4RAQ6A9588.|Met|2019
48705736051338|Fairmont Charter Elementary|6|During the 2018-2019 school year, 4th - 6th grade students at Fairmont were surveyed. Results indicated that: 89.6% of students reported that they are happy to be at school 89.6% of students feel that there is a teacher or adult who really cares about them at school 80.9% of students feel that there is a teacher or adult who notices when they are not at school 93.9% of students feel that there is a teacher or adult who listen to them at school 93.3% of students state that there is a teacher or adult who tells them when they do a good job 100% of students feel that there is a teacher or adult at school who wants them to do their best 91.3% of students state that there is a teacher or adult who believes they will be successful in the future 72.7% of students feel close to people at school 78.3% of students report feeling like they are a part of the school 83.5% of students feel that teachers treat students fairly 89.6% of students feel safe at school 67.8% of students feel that other students are nice at school 97.4% of students stated that they feel good about their schoolwork 92.2% of students state that they try hard at school 63.5% of students report that they are interested in their schoolwork 96.6% of students state that they are trying hard to learn new things 97.4% of students report that they are trying to do better in their schoolwork 95% of student report feeling safe or very safe at school 63.5% of students have participated in school clubs or activities 64.3% of students report knowing about career or college opportunities after high school|2019-10-24|In addition to student surveys, students at Fairmont also have the opportunity to provide input and feedback at Associated Student Body meetings. In talking with students and in reviewing student surveys, staff have set a focus of providing students with additional opportunities to be engaged with activities before, during, and after-school. In addition, improving the playground at Fairmont is a priority for students and staff.|Met|2019
45699890000000|Fall River Joint Unified|6|According to the FRJUSD 2017-2018 Healthy Kids Survey Main Report, School Engagement and Supports results revealed 89% of students in grades 7,9, and 11 agree there is an adult that cares about them, 83% feel that adults notice when they're not there, and 84% listen when they have something to say.  Looking at the same survey, student's perceived safety at school reveals that 89% of students feel safe at school.  These are areas of strength in the district.  The district has made school climate an overall priority and has had several trainings to address these subjects.  The LEA has implemented an ALICE training further insuring school safety. A new intercom system has been installed at all school sites.  This will enable the district's safety protocols to be the same throughout the district.  Safety training is continuing and each site participates in ALICE and evacuation drills.   A new survey will be conducted during the 2019-2020 school year to update current data.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
37681140000000|Fallbrook Union Elementary|6|FUESD annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to all 5th and 7th grade students.  71% of 5th grade students and 58% of 7th grade students indicated they feel safe at school.  64% of the 5th grade students and 50% of the 7th grade students indicated they have moderate to high feelings of connectedness. The responses from the District Needs Assessment indicated that 97% of the parents felt that their student's school is a safe place.  Based on our parent and staff input, student perception surveys, discipline data, attendance data and increased referrals for special education assessment, the District continue to fund half time counselors and full time assistant principals at each school site. Additionally, the District continues to support a full time behavior specialist to support both general education and special education students.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
37681220000000|Fallbrook Union High|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to students in grade 9 and grade 11. The percentage of students of reported that they "agree" or "strongly agree" that they feel connected to their school raised and dropped over the course of three years for 9th graders from 40% to 52% to 48%.   Students in grade eleven went up from 46% to 51%.  Fifty eight percent of students in grade 9 felt that they had caring adults on campus and 62% of students in grade 11 felt the same.  Approximately 70% of students in grades 9 and 11 reported that they felt adults had high expectations of them .  Approximately 40% of students in grade 9 and 11 reported that they perceived their school to be safe, but less than 30% reported harrassment or bullying, mean lies being spread, and less that 20% feared being beaten up.  In grade 9 the percentage of students who had seen a weapon on campus decreased from 24% in 17-18 to 12% in 18-19 and for students in grade 11 the percentage decreased from 32% to 12%.  The percentages of alcohol and drug use have also gone down in the past three years from 30% for 11th graders to 20%, and 22% of 9th graders to 14%.  Additionally binge drinking has decreased as well as being drunk or high at school.  The district can celebrate the areas of strength in decreasing the amount of weapons seen on campus, decreasing drug and alcohol use, and decreasing bullying and perceived threat of violence.  An area of continued struggle for the school is connectedness with less than 50% of students feeling connected to their high school, and only approximately 60% feeling that there are caring adults on campus.    In response to some of this information, the LEA has begun to gather information to implement a multi-tier system of supports in an effort to increase the connectedness and caring of adults on campus.  Additionally professional learning has been conducted to better support staff in understanding the diverse backgrounds of the students at our LEA.  Student shadowing, organized home visits, and data collection has been employed to better understand students and their needs at all high school campuses.  While we are in the initial stages of implementing MTSS, there has been an increase in the number of home visits that teachers, counselors, and administrators engage in, and families are receiving parent leadership training and are being asked how to support and engage students on campus.  Dual enrollment and CTE courses have been added to engage students, and AVID and Global Village is another area in which students are being engaged on campus.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
19643520128488|Family First Charter|6|The school does twice the recommended assessments. Every other year is too infrequent to address climate and culture issues, as they have a huge impact on student learning, instructional practices, and community needs.  Our primary assessment data is surveys of students and surveys of teachers done 1-2 times per year.  1. Data: The school learned that there is room for growth and that new teachers may not be familiar with the historical growth and trajectory, so they will need additional training on the practices  that are important for our climate. We learned that teachers and students are largely satisfied with their classes and school. Over 90% of staff and over the same amount of students were satisfied with the school. its quality, and its rigor.  2. The disaggregated data shows that the needs of both teachers and students vary so that we will need to ensure training comes from multiple vantage points and in multiple modalities.  3. USE: As a result, the school will continue developing onboarding assessments and training to acclimate staff in how our school culture is important to us and how we built that culture in service of students and learners.|2019-10-30|na|Met|2019
42691120111773|Family Partnership Charter|6|In 2018-19 Family Partnership Charter conducted school climate surveys including a student survey of students in grades 5-12. The results of the surveys were shared with the Governing Board at the Annual Board Retreat.  182 students participated in the survey - about 48% of enrollment. Approximately 40% of survey participants were in grades 9-12 with the remaining students in grades 5-8. Results from the survey indicate students have an overwhelmingly positive impression of their experience at the school. When asked to respond to the statement, "people of different cultural backgrounds, races, or ethnicities get along well at this school", 95% of students agreed or strongly agreed. 100% of students feel their "teachers care about me." 97% also say they "feel safe at this school". 92% of students indicate they agree or strongly agree that they know what to do if there is an emergency, natural disaster or dangerous situation.   When asked, "Why did you choose Family Partnership?", the most frequently selected attribute was "flexibility in learning" followed by "independent study option". They also emphasized the "quality of teaching, good student support, great communication, pacing, one-to-one instruction and friendly teachers who are willing to help right away." Students were also asked to rate their academic experience at Family Partnership and 89% feel it has been good to excellent. One student responded, "The staff and teachers are so excellent and they adapt their teaching to our personality and they are supportive and great people and friends." Another student commented, "They make me feel comfortable and they even are a little humorous which helps the relationship between the teacher and student."  Several students indicated that the number of field trips has increased which they enjoy.  Some students stated that they would like more extracurricular activities and social events to be available at the school.  The overall sentiment of the school community is that the staff creates a safe a space for learning and self-expression.  However, the current survey content data focuses on an individual student's connectedness to the school and does not address the perception of the various student groups. Therefore, additional survey options such as the California Healthy Kids Survey will be considered for implemented in 2019-2020 and further disaggregation of all survey data will take place.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
43693856046445|Fammatre Elementary|6|PBIS School Climate Survey - Spring 2019: All students in Grades 3-8.  Number of Students1841 Percentage of students in grades 3-8 who responded “Often” or “Always”.  Survey Questions (Responses from 2018 to 2019) & Change - I like the school. (64% to 70%) + 6% - I feel like I do well in school. (73% to 76%) +3% - My school wants me to do well. (89% to 90%) +1% - My school has clear rules for behavior. (89% to 89%) 0% - Teachers treat me with respect. (89% to 89%) 0% - Good behavior is noticed at my school. (63% to 67%) +4% - I get along with other students. (80% to 78%) -2% - I feel safe at school. (81% to 81%) 0% - Students treat each other well. (69% to 64%) -5% - There is an adult who will help me if I need it. (78% to 81%) 3%  Based on the results of the survey, the CSD staff will be using the data to discuss areas of improvement.  The following are actions that staff will be implementing in the 2018-19 school year:  - Review the results of the school climate survey with all staff and identify areas of improvement where the survey results in less than 80% of students responded "often" or "always". - Staff will also share and discussed overall students' results of the survey with students to better understand our students' needs and what actions or support staff and sites can improve or change. - Staff will administer a pre and post-assessment of the changes and monitor the progress of the changes as they relate to students' perceptions of school climate.|2019-10-02|Cambrian School District has been implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS).  A key strategy of the PBIS process is prevention.  The PBIS model is a research-based strategy that is supported by the state of California and the federal Department of Education. The 3-tiered approach reduces problem behavior as a barrier to student achievement. We only have 180 days each year to advance academic progress, so instructional time is very valuable. Research shows that schools following the PBIS model recover thousands of hours of instructional time and, on average, four days of student instruction per year.|Met|2019
54753250000000|Farmersville Unified|6|The California Healthy Kid Survey was administered to students in grades 5,8,9. The survey focused on two areas school connectedness and safety. The data results in elementary indicate that 91% of students feel safe at school. Elementary students also reported that 92% reported caring adults in schools, and 93% report connectedness to school. Secondary students reported that 89% of students feel safe at school. Additionally 83% of students reported caring adults in schools, and 81% report school connectedness. The results indicate that schools are making positive progress in developing a safe and caring school climate for students. The district will continue to develop and implement PBIS / MTSS structures and training to improve these results. Both PBIS and MTSS include tiered Interventions that provide systemic responses and resources to improve social-emotional learning and school climate for students.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
43693856046452|Farnham Charter|6|PBIS School Climate Survey - Spring 2019: All students in Grades 3-8.  Number of Students1841 Percentage of students in grades 3-8 who responded “Often” or “Always”.  Survey Questions (Responses from 2018 to 2019) & Change - I like the school. (64% to 70%) + 6% - I feel like I do well in school. (73% to 76%) +3% - My school wants me to do well. (89% to 90%) +1% - My school has clear rules for behavior. (89% to 89%) 0% - Teachers treat me with respect. (89% to 89%) 0% - Good behavior is noticed at my school. (63% to 67%) +4% - I get along with other students. (80% to 78%) -2% - I feel safe at school. (81% to 81%) 0% - Students treat each other well. (69% to 64%) -5% - There is an adult who will help me if I need it. (78% to 81%) 3%  Based on the results of the survey, the CSD staff will be using the data to discuss areas of improvement.  The following are actions that staff will be implementing in the 2018-19 school year:  - Review the results of the school climate survey with all staff and identify areas of improvement where the survey results in less than 80% of students responded "often" or "always". - Staff will also share and discussed overall students' results of the survey with students to better understand our students' needs and what actions or support staff and sites can improve or change. - Staff will administer a pre and post-assessment of the changes and monitor the progress of the changes as they relate to students' perceptions of school climate.|2019-10-02|Cambrian School District has been implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS).  A key strategy of the PBIS process is prevention.  The PBIS model is a research-based strategy that is supported by the state of California and the federal Department of Education. The 3-tiered approach reduces problem behavior as a barrier to student achievement. We only have 180 days each year to advance academic progress, so instructional time is very valuable. Research shows that schools following the PBIS model recover thousands of hours of instructional time and, on average, four days of student instruction per year.|Met|2019
37680236037956|Feaster (Mae L.) Charter|6|Some of the key learnings we identified from our student administered survey which was completed by Thoughexchange was that poor student behavior continues be a distraction from learning for students in the classroom.  They report that defiant, violent, disrespectful and destructive behavior impeded their ability to have access to instruction and impacts their ability to learn in a safe environment.  For us this meant looking at student behavior from a different angle than just the consequences that were given in the office or classroom and taking a school wide approach to addressing the Social and Emotional needs of our students and changing the culture at school to a place where we understand the traumas that our students come in with and develop solutions to help them rather than just discipline them.  We created a PBIS committee whose role at school is to change the culture to a positive approach and reward those who are following the expectations.  We also developed a full counseling department with a full time counselor, social work and behavior specialist to work with those students who need tier 3 intervention, but also to go into classrooms and teach lessons to all student to help address problems before the begin.  We will continue to track behavior referral data and administer surveys to our students to see if our efforts have yielded improvement.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
04614400000000|Feather Falls Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
19647336017016|Fenton Avenue Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered to 5th grade every other year. Fenton Avenue Charter School (FACS) has meaningfully engaged stakeholders, including those representing relevant subgroups, in the LCAP and budgeting process throughout the spring via formal meetings, surveys, and data review. As a school that serves a population in grades 3-5 that is 91% free and reduced price lunch (unduplicated FRPL), 91.5% Hispanic/Latino, 5.3% African American, 29.1% English Learners, 13.6% Special Education, all of our efforts are inherently attuned to the needs of student sub-groups and children who are “at- risk.”  School-Community Relations Council meetings (open to all parents), parent conferences, Open House and regularly scheduled informational meetings have been held throughout the school year to inform parents and community members about the transition to the Local Control Funding Formula, and the corresponding plan which describes how funding will be expended at the school. The school’s comprehensive website is also a ready and easily accessible source of current information including analysis of the school’s academic gains and specific sub-group performance, the School Accountability Report Card (SARC) and Title III report, detailed information about the Common Core, WASC review, and the school’s curriculum, programs and other resources. Information is also readily available to parents in the school’s Family Center, which is staffed by a full-time Family Center Director.  FACS staff members have met regularly within their specific governance and administrative committees and as a whole staff to review and discuss the changes to State funding and the corresponding LCAP plan. Staff have provided input regarding the priorities established by the state and how best to implement improvement, and fund the programs and resources identified by the school community as necessary to realize the goals established by the school’s plan.  Finally, the Board of Directors – which includes an elected parent representative from the school – has played an active role in reviewing LCAP drafts and offering input. Input received through these interactions have been incorporated into the LCAP.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330131722|Fenton Charter Leadership Academy|6|Fenton Charter Leadership Academy consistently measures perceptions of school safety and connectedness through various methods. Recent measurements include administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey, schoolwide audits from the Charter Schools Development Center (CSDC) and Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC), and a comprehensive climate survey as required for recent charter renewal. Results of the California Healthy Kids Survey (administered in 2015-2016), indicate students feel a high level of school connectedness, academic motivation, and high expectations present at Fenton Charter Leadership Academy. Results also indicate a low level of substance abuse present in the home environment.  As a requirement of the Public Charter Schools Grant Program (PCSGP) awarded to the LEA to help fund the opening and help sustain the school, the Fenton Charter Leadership Academy was audited by the Charter Schools Development Center (CSDC) to review the school's program at the end of the 2015-2016 school year. This audit included interviews with key stakeholders, classroom observations, as well as focus group interviews with staff, parents, and students. Focus groups indicated students appeared to be making strong academic progress at the school. A majority of students in the focus group noted the learning program as one of their favorite parts of the school, and students felt strongly that they were learning more than at schools they had previously attended. Students, parents, and teachers described a high degree of engagement, where students are supported to master challenging curricula.  Fenton Charter Leadership Academy received WASC Accreditation during the 2016-2017 school year. The WASC Visiting Committee met with school and parent community members, in addition to conducting classroom observations. The visiting committee was impressed with the level of involvement by the various committees and the commitment by the leadership to involve all stakeholders. In speaking with the Board member the involvement and expertise was evident. The school was deemed creative in the use of startup funds to provide a quality environment for students. The processes were considered solid with careful ongoing planning that provides for the future of the school.  As required by recent charter renewal, Fenton Charter Leadership Academy conducted a comprehensive parent survey in June 2018. Overall school satisfaction was reported to be 96% by parents. Parents rated the school on it's overall effectiveness along the areas of organization, curriculum, instruction, assessment, and school culture. Fenton Charter Leadership Academy will continue to measure and analyze perceptions of school safety and school culture as a means of meeting the needs of all stakeholders.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330115048|Fenton Primary Center|6|The school created two annual surveys. One for parents and one for staff. The results were as follows. 100% of staff submitted a survey. 50% of parents submitted a survey. The four areas that were addressed in the survey were Organization, Curriculum, Instruction, Assessment, and School Culture. The final results for all surveys in all categories were above 90% satisfaction. Curriculum and Rigor of Instruction were high at 97% satisfaction. Parents did comment on the availability of more parent workshops in regards to academic support at home or tutoring availability for students outside of school hours. The school plans to continue to provide surveys that will provide more details to help define the need.  Parent Advocacy Committee meetings (open to all parents), parent conferences, Open House and regularly scheduled informational meetings have been held throughout the school year to inform parents and community members about the transition to the Local Control Funding Formula, and the corresponding plan which describes how funding will be expended at the school. The school’s comprehensive website is also a ready and easily accessible source of current information including analysis of the school’s academic gains and specific sub-group performance, the School Accountability Report Card (SARC) and Title III report, detailed information about the Common Core, WASC review, and the school’s curriculum, programs and other resources. Information is also readily available to parents in the school’s main office.  FPC staff members have met regularly within their specific governance and administrative committees and as a whole staff to review and discuss the changes to State funding and the corresponding LCAP plan. The staff? has provided input regarding the priorities established by the state and how best to implement improvement, and fund the programs and resources identified by the school community as necessary to realize the goals established by the school’s plan.  Finally, the Board of Directors – which includes an elected parent representative from the school – has played an active role in reviewing LCAP drafts and offering input. Input received through these interactions has been incorporated into the LCAP.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330131466|Fenton STEM Academy: Elementary Center for Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics|6|Fenton STEM Academy consistently measures perceptions of school safety and connectedness through various methods. Recent measurements include administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey, schoolwide audits from the Charter Schools Development Center (CSDC) and Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC), and a comprehensive climate survey as required for recent charter renewal. Results of the California Healthy Kids Survey (administered in 2015-2016), indicate students feel a high level of school connectedness, academic motivation, and high expectations present at Fenton STEM Academy. Results also indicate a low level of substance abuse present in the home environment.  As a requirement of the Public Charter Schools Grant Program (PCSGP) awarded to the LEA to help fund the opening and help sustain the school, the Fenton STEM Academy was audited by the Charter Schools Development Center (CSDC) to review the school's program at the end of the 2015-2016 school year. This audit included interviews with key stakeholders, classroom observations, as well as focus group interviews with staff, parents, and students. Focus groups indicated students appeared to be making strong academic progress at the school. A majority of students in the focus group noted the learning program as one of their favorite parts of the school, and students felt strongly that they were learning more than at schools they had previously attended. Students, parents, and teachers described a high degree of engagement, where students are supported to master challenging curricula.  Fenton STEM Academy received WASC Accreditation during the 2016-2017 school year. The WASC Visiting Committee met with school and parent community members, in addition to conducting classroom observations. The visiting committee was impressed with the level of involvement by the various committees and the commitment by the leadership to involve all stakeholders. In speaking with the Board member the involvement and expertise was evident. The school was deemed creative in the use of startup funds to provide a quality environment for students. The processes were considered solid with careful ongoing planning that provides for the future of the school.  As required by recent charter renewal, Fenton STEM Academy conducted a comprehensive parent survey in June 2018. Overall school satisfaction was reported to be 96% by parents. Parents rated the school on it's overall effectiveness along the areas of organization, curriculum, instruction, assessment, and school culture. Fenton STEM Academy will continue to measure and analyze perceptions of school safety and school culture as a means of|2019-10-24||Met|2019
12753740000000|Ferndale Unified|6|According to the local survey (Healthy Kids Survey) administered in the spring of 2019, 94.5% of parents surveyed strongly agreed or agreed that the schools are safe, 100% of staff surveyed strongly agreed or agreed that the schools are safe and 72.25% surveyed felt very safe or safe at school. The goals were to maintain 95% for parents and staff and reach 72% for students. All goals were met this year.  These results suggest that the PBIS and School Climate Measures (Restorative Practices, Mindfulness, etc.) are helping to maintain and even increase the feeling of safety and belonging at our sites. Many world events are (mass shootings, increasing suicide vents, etc.) are affecting the feeling of safety for some students and staff. Increased awareness and training for staff and students have been implemented in hopes of increasing a feeling of safety. Our commitment to providing counseling onsite for students as well as working with outside agencies when needed for additional support for our students and families has increasingly successful. Outreach coupled with anti-bullying and kindness campaigns and guest presenters are the tools we are using in response to student survey results. We have also increased staff training and awareness on positive behavior strategies and practices in place of punitive discipline measures as well as increased awareness and training for recognizing depression and beginning intervention when necessary.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
12627940000000|Fieldbrook Elementary|6|1. Data - Our district survey indicated that 95% of students feel safe at school and 96% of students feel that the staff cares about them. 66% of students felt the school climate has improved through our PBIS programs and the same percentage feel that bullying is not a problem at school. 2. The information shows that new programs implemented last year are working. these percentages are higher than prior surveys indicating that the overall climate on campus has improved.  These programs take more effort by our staff to implement but the outcomes are positive and appreciated by staff. Further data collection is needed for long-term change and to validate fidelity of the programs. 3. The district will continue to support the MTSS and PBIS programs in the school. Further data review will be needed to make decisions on new programs and supporting current ones.  We have seen positive results from our actions and look forward to seeing continued growth.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
56724540000000|Fillmore Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is the locally identified indicator for students’ sense of feeling safe, cared for and welcomed at school. Fillmore Unified School District's analysis of CHKS longitudinal results informed the District that a concerted and systemic approach was necessary for students’ social-emotional and academic success. Fillmore USD adopts the “whole child” philosophy and recognizes that before teaching and learning begin, social-emotional conditions must and will be addressed. “Affective” conditions and support provide optimal “effective” opportunities for successful instructional outcomes. The District continues to commit to and prioritize the full implementation of Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) in order to provide conditions for greater academic gains and an overall, all-inclusive educational experience by partnering with Safe & Civil Schools. Elements of Safe & Civil Schools include Foundations (throughout common areas and shared spaces on campus), classroom approaches, such as CHAMPS (Conversation, Help, Activity, Movement, Participation, Success), and DSC (Discipline in the Secondary Classroom). Protocols are developed by site-based teams. A continuous cycle of inquiry is employed which includes data analysis for refinement of improved student daily and on-time attendance, engagement, motivation, problem-solving, ownership of learning and decision making, and a holistic connectedness.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
10738090000000|Firebaugh-Las Deltas Unified|6|CHKS student results (2018-19) from 2 key indicators were reviewed and reported in the 2019-20 LCAP.  Gender and grade distribution from 541 students that completed the survey (Spring 2018) was (5th, 55% M, 45 F); (7th, 49% M, 51% F); (9th, 51% M, 49% F); and (11th, 52% M, 48% F).  Responses of moderate and high levels for school “Connectedness” and “Feeling Safe and Feeling Very Safe” at school were:  • Connectedness:  (5th, 99%; +6) (7th, 92%; -4) (9th, 94%; +2) (11th, 90%; -1) • Feeling Safe/Very Safe: (5th, 80%; +1) (7th, 68%; +1) (9th, 71%; -4) (11th, 55%; -2)  DATA:  80%, 5th graders feel safe to/from school and safe at school most/all of the time; 68%, 7th graders feel safe at school most/all of the time. 71%, 9th and 55%, 11th graders reported feeling safe/very safe at school.  89%, 5th graders reported bullying is not allowed most/all of the time; 78% of 7th graders; 68% of 9th grades and 60% of 11th graders feel bullying is not tolerated.  81%, 7th graders reported being harassed or bullied in the past 12 months 0 times; 5% reported at least 1 time.  84%, 9th graders and 90%, 11th graders reported never being harassed or bullied.  90%, 5th grade students reported alcohol use is bad or very bad and 93% of 5th grade students reported that marijuana, (smoke, vape, eat, or drink) is bad or very bad. 21% of 7th graders; 54% of 9th graders and 50% of 11th graders reported alcohol is easy or very easy to obtain.  Eleven percent of the 7th graders; 42% of 9th graders and 51% of 11th graders surveyed reported that it was “fairly easy” and “very easy” to obtain marijuana. MEANING: CHKS results show students benefit from positive, safe learning environments and alcohol and marijuana use increases as students get older.  The District acknowledged that in order to more effectively meet the academic, behavior, social and emotional needs of ALL Students additional supports and services were needed.    USE:  CHKS results are used to identify and monitor progress in areas of need.  The District focuses on early prevention and intervention through the implementation of a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS).  The District has also implemented the All for Youth Program in partnership with the Office of the Fresno County Superintendent of Schools; specifically, the SELPA.  The All For Youth program was designed to help youth and their families access behavioral health services at school, in the community and in the home.  Children ages 0-5 with frequent tantrums, difficult playing with others, following directions, or persistent nightmares will be served.  Youth age, 6-22 years old, with difficulty coping with problems and daily activities; excessive worry or anxiety (i.e. refusing to go to school); feelings of sadness and hopelessness; frequent outbursts of anger and difficulty with behavior and frequent suspensions will also be served.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
38684780118133|Five Keys Adult School (SF Sheriff's)|6|In March 2019, students participated in a school-wide needs assessment. Both in-custody and community site students were interviewed using a face-to-face survey. Using the qualitative interview format, we were able to gather more and deeper information. Students provided feedback on their connectedness to others, their motivation for continuing their education, and FK’s instructional programs. The overall responses indicate that Five Keys provides an encouraging, safe, and respectful learning environment for students. Students reported attending school because of the support and encouragement given by teachers. When asked, “What makes you want to attend school regularly?” the majority of student responses included either“my teacher” or “my friends”, and some students reported they attended school because of both teacher and friends. Additionally, students were asked, ”What do you enjoy most about your learning experience?” and again many of the responses included “my teacher” or “other students”. However, the data revealed that 29.5 % of students failed to make a new connection while attending Five Keys. Although this is a small fraction of students, as a school we continue to focus on increasing student engagement as outlined in Goal 1 of our Local Control Accountability Plan. Another area of growth identified through the survey was in student connectedness to college and career pathways. 50% of students answered “no” when asked, “Do you know the resources available for college or career transitions within Five Keys?. The survey also revealed a need to strengthen our ability to connect in-custody students to one of our community sites upon release. 52.6% of in-custody students reported they would not be enrolling in a community site upon release.  Strategies for increasing knowledge of career and college pathways, and increasing retention for our students who are transitioning from an in-custody setting to the community has been at the forefront of our professional development this year.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
38684780101774|Five Keys Charter (SF Sheriff's)|6|In March 2019, students participated in a school-wide needs assessment. Both in-custody and community site students were interviewed using a face-to-face survey. Using the qualitative interview format, we were able to gather more and deeper information. Students provided feedback on their connectedness to others, their motivation for continuing their education, and FK’s instructional programs. The overall responses indicate that Five Keys provides an encouraging, safe, and respectful learning environment for students. Students reported attending school because of the support and encouragement given by teachers. When asked, “What makes you want to attend school regularly?” the majority of student responses included either“my teacher” or “my friends”, and some students reported they attended school because of both teacher and friends. Additionally, students were asked, ”What do you enjoy most about your learning experience?” and again many of the responses included “my teacher” or “other students”. However, the data revealed that 29.5 % of students failed to make a new connection while attending Five Keys. Although this is a small fraction of students, as a school we continue to focus on increasing student engagement as outlined in Goal 1 of our Local Control Accountability Plan. Another area of growth identified through the survey was in student connectedness to college and career pathways. 50% of students answered “no” when asked, “Do you know the resources available for college or career transitions within Five Keys?. The survey also revealed a need to strengthen our ability to connect in-custody students to one of our community sites upon release. 52.6% of in-custody students reported they would not be enrolling in a community site upon release.  Strategies for increasing knowledge of career and college pathways, and increasing retention for our students who are transitioning from an in-custody setting to the community has been at the forefront of our professional development this year.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
38684780118141|Five Keys Independence HS (SF Sheriff's)|6|In March 2019, students participated in a school-wide needs assessment. Both in-custody and community site students were interviewed using a face-to-face survey. Using the qualitative interview format, we were able to gather more and deeper information. Students provided feedback on their connectedness to others, their motivation for continuing their education, and FK’s instructional programs. The overall responses indicate that Five Keys provides an encouraging, safe, and respectful learning environment for students. Students reported attending school because of the support and encouragement given by teachers. When asked, “What makes you want to attend school regularly?” the majority of student responses included either“my teacher” or “my friends”, and some students reported they attended school because of both teacher and friends. Additionally, students were asked, ”What do you enjoy most about your learning experience?” and again many of the responses included “my teacher” or “other students”. However, the data revealed that 29.5 % of students failed to make a new connection while attending Five Keys. Although this is a small fraction of students, as a school we continue to focus on increasing student engagement as outlined in Goal 1 of our Local Control Accountability Plan. Another area of growth identified through the survey was in student connectedness to college and career pathways. 50% of students answered “no” when asked, “Do you know the resources available for college or career transitions within Five Keys?. The survey also revealed a need to strengthen our ability to connect in-custody students to one of our community sites upon release. 52.6% of in-custody students reported they would not be enrolling in a community site upon release.  Strategies for increasing knowledge of career and college pathways, and increasing retention for our students who are transitioning from an in-custody setting to the community has been at the forefront of our professional development this year.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
52715300000000|Flournoy Union Elementary|6|Due to our small size, (30 students k-8), and coupled with the need for confidentiality, our school has opted to develop our own survey to gather input regarding school connectedness and safety.  Some of our grade levels have only one student and to publish results of student surveys that are supposed to protect individual student answers presents difficulty.  Flournoy has 6 staff members (classified and certificated). As a result, our staff has extensive opportunities on a daily basis to interact with students.  Our school has had no student referrals or suspensions over the past 2 years.  The 2018 survey results are as follows: I feel welcome when I enter the school. (29 responses) Value Count Yes         29 No           0 I feel safe at school. (29 responses) Value Count Yes          28 No            1 I like coming to school (29 responses) Value Count Yes           18 No            11 The school is clean and well-maintained. (29 responses) Value Count Yes            24 No              5 Students at my school are well behaved. (29 responses) Value Count Yes            23 No              6 At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me. (29 responses) Value Count Yes           29 No             0 The learning environment at this school is excellent. (29 responses) Value Count Yes           28 No             1 I am given additional academic help when needed. (29 responses) Value Count Yes          29 No            0 I participate in the activities at my school. (field trips, sports, and performances. (29 responses) Value Count Yes         29 No           0 Most of the time I know how to do my homework. (29 responses) Value Count Yes           29 No             0 There is an adult at home who can help me with my homework. (29 responses) Value Count Yes           27 No             2 I have access to technology at my school. (29 responses) Value Count Yes          28 No            1 I use technology every week at my school. (29 responses) Value Count Yes           29 No             0 I am satisfied with the extracurricular activities at the school. (29 responses) Value Count Yes            27 No              2 I do physical activity (walk, run, jump, dance, play sports, etc.) at least one hour each day of the week. (29 responses) Value Count Yes           28 No             1  The most significant results of this survey are that the vast majority of students feel welcome when they enter school, students believe the school is safe, clean and well maintained, the learning environment is excellent, students are given extra academic help when needed and there is at least one staff member who really cares about them.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
34673300106757|Folsom Cordova K-8 Community Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
34673300000000|Folsom-Cordova Unified|6|School climate plays an important role in student success at school.  Folsom Cordova Unified School District (FCUSD) administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) annually to students in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grades and to all students who attend non-traditional schools.  Our most recent survey results are from fall 2018 where we administered the core school climate module and for the first time, the new social-emotional health module.  Together, these survey modules provide important information about the learning environments of our schools and gives us insight on students’ social-emotional development which is linked to academic achievement and overall student well-being.  Supports and engagement play an important role in creating a positive school climate. Specifically, positive relationships amongst students and adults in schools are characterized by warmth and closeness and enable students to feel safe and secure in their learning environment and promotes greater student motivation (Baker et al., 2008).  At all grade levels, more than 86% of students felt that there was at least one teacher or other adult who really cared about them.  When students believe in themselves, they have greater self-awareness, a greater likelihood of persisting through challenges and feel more efficacious; all qualities that are important for school and life success. Eighty eight percent of 5th grade students have high levels of belief in self. At the secondary level, we see a declining belief in self with 78% of 7th graders, 63% of 9th graders, 58% of 11th graders and 52% our non-traditional students responding positively to questions about their capabilities. An area of concern that stood out was around secondary students’ levels of social-emotional distress which encompasses anxiety, fear of embarrassment, tense feelings and/or an inability to relax. A quarter of all 7th graders and over a third of 9th, 11th, and non-traditional students reported frequent bouts of social-emotional distress.  Low incidences of violence, victimization, and substance use are necessary to create a positive school climate.  Eighty percent of 5th grade students and almost 60% of secondary and non-traditional students reported feeling safe at school.  5th graders reported low incidences of bullying and felt that teachers are clear about the rules and treated with respect when they do make mistakes.  Approximately 1/3 of secondary students reported being harassed at school due to race, religion, disability or any other reason.|2019-10-24|Per CHKS survey results, FCUSD has met the standard for a safe and connected school climate, however, FCUSD has room to grow. One strategy that the district is employing to aid in the creation of safe, supportive, and connected school communities is through Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) teams and the enactment of a robust SEL action plan that includes objectives, goals, and suite of strategies that are being piloted and assessed across the district. Also, at monthly principals’ meetings, leaders are looking closely at data to inform the focus of our PLCs . Finally, staff across the district are participating in specialized training focused on empathy, implicit bias, equity, bullying prevention, LGBTQ issues, and suicide awareness.|Met|2019
36677100000000|Fontana Unified|6|Data used to evaluate school climate included results from the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) which was administered to students in grades 5, 7, and 11 during the Fall of 2018 to measure perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Preliminary Chronic Absentee and suspension rates and previous CHKS data were also considered to measure growth. Fall 2018: *79% of grade 5 students felt connected at school *64% of grade 7 students felt connected at school *52% of grade 11 students felt connected at school    *72% of grade 5 students felt safe at school *63% of grade 7 students perceived school as safe *50% of grade 11 students perceived school a safe  Fall 2016: *62% in grade 5 felt connected *51% in grade 7 felt connected *34% in grade 11 felt connected  *80% in grade 5 felt safe at school *62% in grade 7 perceived school as safe *56% in grade 11 perceived school as safe  The data indicates that students at higher grade levels feel less connected and safe at school, there was an increase in school connectedness from 2016 to 2018, and that students at all grade levels feel less safe at school in 2018 than in 2016. The 2014-2015 suspension rate for the district was 6.1%, exceeding the county rate of 5.1% and state rate of 3.8%. Many of the students being suspended were going through trauma. During the 2015-2016 school year the district created the Multi-Tiered System of Supports department to assist sites in developing interventions for students dealing with trauma causing behaviors leading to suspension and chronic absenteeism, implement PBIS, and improve overall school climate. The suspension rate for the 2017-2018 school year declined to 3.9%, below the county rate of 4.3% and close to the state rate of 3.5%.  Preliminary data for the 2018-2019 school year shows the suspension rate at 3.2%. While the suspension rate has declined overall, the percentage of African-American students suspended was more than double (6.8%) the district rate.  The Chronic Absenteeism Rate in 2017-2018 for grades K-12 was 9.9%, lower than the county average of 12.6% and the state average of 11.1%. Preliminary Chronic Absenteeism data for 2018-2019 for grades K-12 shows that the Chronic Absenteeism rate increased to 11.3%. Data will be monitored to determine if this recent increase is a trend or not.  Disaggregated school climate data indicated a particular need at the middle school level and as a result, each middle school site hired a Climate and Culture Coach to help improve school connectedness mid-way through the 2018-2019 year. They help to implement restorative discipline practices, improve school climate, and assist school staff in providing interventions to help identified students or student groups engage in school. Monthly meetings have also been implemented to review site level referral, suspension and attendance data, identify trends, and plan targeted assistance to support sites. Finally, training to address implicit bias will occur district-wide.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
55105530129346|Foothill Leadership Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
29102980126219|Forest Charter|6|a. Forest Charter School annually does a parent survey and a staff survey to measure school safety and connectedness. These surveys are given to parents in all grades from K-12. The results of these surveys have always remained very positive over the years.  b. FCS also annually does the California Healthy Kids Survey. Results from this survey are combined with the other survey results to help shape goals, needs and policies correctly. c. Sample FCS Survey Questions/Results i. Question #1 - I feel that my child is safe/supervised at the Learning Center - 87% Strongly agreed or agreed, 11% were neutral or did not know ii. Question #2 - The teachers show respect for the students - 90% Strongly agreed or agreed, 8% were neutral or did not know iii. Question #3 - The students show respect for other students – 78% Strongly agreed or agreed, 22% were neutral or did not know|2019-10-15||Met|2019
43693936046577|Forest Hill Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
04614240118042|Forest Ranch Charter|6|Due to challenges faced from the CAMP fire we only surveyed students in 5-8th grades during the 2018-19 school year. We expected to have mixed results as our primary teachers in those grades were significantly impacted by the fire and the other teacher was new to our school. Thirty eight of the fifty one students in 5-8th grade completed the survey. The survey had a range of items surrounding faculty/staff, school activities and educational programs as well as school climate. Items like my teacher values my input, I feel safe at school, I feel comfortable and welcome at school, how satisfied are you with your teacher, electives, etc. Overall all but 2 students were satisfied or very satisfied with the overall quality of school. All students were happy with their teachers and all but two were also happy with the school director, office manger and classroom aides. Students showed the least satisfaction with yard staff (76%). Students reported higher levels of satisfaction with school electives (100%), math (90%), english (95%), history (90%), Teacher values input and ideas (95%). Students lowest satisfaction rates were with the bus (20% unsatisfied) and science (24% unsatisfied).  Most of the dissatisfied students in Science were in Middle School where their was a new science teacher. We have hired a new single subject science teacher for this school year and have made changes to the playground and way the yard is staffed in response to student input.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
31668370000000|Foresthill Union Elementary|6|FUSD considered data from the 2017-2018 California Healthy Kids Survey, one of several tools used, to determine local climate perceptions. This data was utilized to enhance or eliminate LCAP goals and school programs. LCAP Goal #1: is focused on attendance and positive behavior support systems designed to increase attendance. 43% of students surveyed state they missed school due to illness; this is down from 60% in the previous year. 99% of students indicate they feel safe or very safe on campus. One area of concern that shows in CHKS data shows only 1% of 6th-8th grade students indicate they have been made fun of, insulted or called names. Utilizing discipline tracking software it is known that this number is actually higher than reported via the CHKS. Therefore, FUSD is taking steps to continue with the implementation PBIS and continues to train a team of staff to support behavioral concerns. All staff has been trained in the Nurtured Heart Approach as well. Parents and students are part of the PBIS committee that guides implementation on campus. FUSD continues to celebrate and award perfect attendance and new this year recognizing improved attendance. Goal #3 addresses students and families feeling safe and welcomed on campus. CHKS data indicates 90.6% of students indicate they feel connected and cared about by at least one staff member on campus. 65% of students feel safe or very safe on campus. Student data indicates approximately 33% feel the campus in not tidy, 33% feel it is tidy, and 33% do not care either way. Multiple steps have been taken to address this concern such as exterior painting, floor resurfacing, classroom and office lighting updated, exterior improvements, restroom improvements, and improvements to the gym and the addition of PBIS banners and guidelines posted in all locations. Goal #4 parent engagement: 71% feel welcome to participate at school. Many opportunities are available for parents to participate including PTO, Site Council, Classroom volunteer, Field-trip chaperones, and various other opportunities.Goal #5 is focused around curriculum and student achievement. FUSD offers student choice with elective classes and many opportunities in experiential learning. 52% of students state they work hard in school as they are interested in the curriculum. 81% state they work hard to understand new things, while 93% state they are always trying to do better. FUSD offers multiple opportunities throughout the year to honor and recognize students that excel academically, socially, and in sports. Student council continues to work on student concerns and attends regular Board meetings to update and inform the Board of any concerns students may have.|2019-12-16||Met|2019
49706800112987|Forestville Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
49706800000000|Forestville Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is given to grades 4-6 annually at Forestville School.  The intermediate grades also participated in a forum facilitated by the Superintendent and School Psychologist.  All of this data revealed that almost 100% of students felt that they had at least one adult (teacher, counselor, administrator, paraprofessional, or other staff member) that they could talk to and felt safe at school.   Additionally, students identified the following areas for improvement.  They wanted more help and assistance with curriculum/skills that they are struggling with.  The data also showed that students wanted more engaging and interactive lessons and activities.  While they feel safe and have at least one adult on campus they trust and can go to if they have a problem/concern, students wanted to build positive relationships with other adults (particularly paraprofessionals and campus supervisors). Finally, the data revealed that students did not see nor understand the relevancy for certain lessons, content, and units.  The CHKS was given late in the 2018-19 school year (May), so the data is continuing to be analyzed and actions, revisions, and decisions are being created and planned.  One area that has been addressed is using the data and reflection from last year's sixth grade student to build the master schedule and elective choices for the 2019-20 school year.  The school also provided the sixth grade students an opportunity to tour and visit the middle school campus to support the transition. This year the current sixth and seventh graders will be participating in a community building activity to support the transition to the middle school for next year. Additionally, the behavior support paraprofessionals and office managers have participated in a Trauma Informed support training for working with students and families that have experienced trauma. Social emotional support and training will also be provided throughout the course of this school year and will be an area of focus.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
47702920000000|Forks of Salmon Elementary|6|The District participates in CA Kids Healthy Survey every other year for our upper grade students and annually creates end of the year surveys for students to get information and feedback on what their thoughts are about safety and connection with others while at school. In general our students felt connected with school and staff and that the adults cared about them. Our students felt that the staff had high expectations for their academic progress and emotional social development. Students reported feeling like they had a chance to engage and participate in a meaningful way at school and school functions.   Throughout the school year the District Administrator and Teacher connected with Parental Advisory Committee to share ideas of continuing to fundraise and support students in a variety of enrichement activities, and intentional connections with other students from other schools both near and far, small and large so that there was more opportunities for socialization and partnerships for classroom projects via skype, google classroom and visits to each others school sites. This will help soften the isolation for some grades by helping students foster relationships with peers from other schools.  In general students feel good about coming to school and know that there are adults who care about them, the education and their safety.|1919-10-28|The District supports a school climate where all students are treated equal and their families are supported, respected and encouraged to participate in a meaningful way.|Met|2019
23655650000000|Fort Bragg Unified|6|FBUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The results were shared with the FBUSD Governing Board at the June 14, 2018 regular school board meeting. (Meeting minutes are available upon request.) 5th Results: While 79% of students reported feeling safe at school only 55% reported "yes" all the time to having a caring adult relationship at school. When looking into the survey results more deeply, 62% of students reported "high" believing there were caring adults on campus with an additional 37% of students who believed "moderate" in the caring adults on campus. 64% of 5th graders reported that they feel connected to their school on a "high" scale with another 32% believing they were connected at the "moderate" level. 52% of students reported a "high" level of academic motivation with another 41% reporting a "moderate" level of academic motivation. Fewer than 50% of students report being hit or pushed (44%) with the same number (44%) reporting they had been called bad names or mean jokes were made about them. 19% report seeing a weapon at school.  After some review, many of the weapons were reported as pocket knives. We live in rural community where pocket knives are quite common for young children. 89% of students report that they are treated with respect with 64% of students reporting that they are treated fairly when they break school rules. The entire staff at Dana Gray Elementary School will review the data to determine what areas require overall school attention.  Since Dana Gray is a PBIS school, this data will be used in coordination with the school's PBIS program. 7th Results: 61% of students perceive school as very safe or safe. 53% of students report experiencing some kind of bullying and/or harassment. 16% of students report a high level of school connectedness. 20% report having caring adults at school at a “high” level with 47% reporting caring adults at the moderate level. 36% of students report that there are high expectations at school and 8% report meaningful participation.   9th/11th Results: 74% of 9th graders and 69% of 11th graders perceive school as very safe or safe.  45% of 9th graders and 28% of 11th graders report experiencing some kind of bullying and/or harassment. 20% of 9th graders and 13% of 11th graders report a high level of school connectedness. 35% of 9th graders report having caring adults at school at a “high” level with 54% reporting caring adults at the moderate level.  38% of 11th graders report having caring adults at school at a “high” level with 47% reporting caring adults at the moderate level. 43% of 9th graders and 44% of 11th graders report that there are high expectations at school with 12% of 9th graders and 11% of 11th graders report meaningful participation.   FBUSD is scheduled to administer a new CHKS in October 2019.  Results will be available for review in January 2020.|2019-09-12|At the start of each school year, FBUSD surveys parents regarding school climate and culture.  The results presented to the Governing Board on September 12, 2019 showed positive improvement in parent perceptions and the number of parents responding to the survey increased by almost 50%.|Met|2019
49706980000000|Fort Ross Elementary|6|There are two classrooms at this school, a grades TK-4 and a grades 5-8. Both classes have siblings which lends to the feeling of family within the school.  The climate survey involves a group discussion with each class that includes the principal and teacher.  The two grade spans report similar findings:  students feel the school is an extension of their families, that they are safe and happy at school, and that they identify as members of the school community.  When there is an issue that concerns the students, they quickly inform their teachers and principal, and it's not the survey that identifies needs or concern, but rather the students' openness with staff.  Although the school is in a rural and remote area, students have told staff that they wish to spend more times outdoors and exploring their local environment, and that has become integrated with the PE and science programs through the use of hiking and nature walks.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
18750360000000|Fort Sage Unified|6|Using the results from a student survey, students overall felt that they were treated fairly, important and could be successful, somewhat respected by each other, safe, supported and engaged, challenged and that expectations were at a high level. The school is currently under differentiated assistance for Chronic Suspensions and Absences. We are currently developing strategies to improve in these areas.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
12768020000000|Fortuna Elementary|6|School Climate – Student Survey (18-19)** Statement FESD Rating             Percent Responding I feel close to people at  this school          Strongly disagree                   0  Disagree                                   0  Neither disagree or agree 21  Agree                                 27  Strongly Agree                 52 I am happy to be at this school          Strongly disagree                   2  Disagree                                   5  Neither disagree or agree 18  Agree                                   7  Strongly Agree                 68 I feel like I am part of this school          Strongly disagree                   5  Disagree                                 20  Neither disagree or agree   1  Agree                                   9  Strongly Agree                 65 The teachers at this school treat students fairly          Strongly disagree                 11  Disagree                                 14  Neither disagree or agree 13  Agree                                 21  Strongly Agree                 41  Overall, it appears that students are happy to be at their schools and feel as though they are a part of their school community.  It was noted that a fairly high percentage (25%) of students do not feel as though they are treated fairly by their teachers.  This issue will be brought up at staff meetings and teachers will discuss ways to make sure they are treating all students fairly and equitably.  This will also be accomplished by the deliberate and systematic implementation and practice of PBIS strategies at each school site.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
12628100000000|Fortuna Union High|6|The FUHSD administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey annually to assess school safety and student connectedness. The FUHSD LCAP includes several expected annual measurable outcomes related to Priority 6:   81% of students participated in the CA Healthy Kids Survey 5% of parents/guardians completed the CA Healthy Kids Parent Survey  83% of staff completed the CA Healthy Kids Staff Survey  63% of 9th graders indicated a high level of school connectedness 60% of 10th graders indicated a high level of school connectedness 66% of 11th graders indicated a high level of school connectedness 66% of 9th graders perceive school as a “safe” or “very safe” place 60% of 10th graders perceive school as a "safe" or "very safe" place 60% of 11th graders perceive school as a “safe” or “very safe” place  The survey indicates FUHSD schools are generally perceived to be safe learning environments where students feel “connected” and “a part” of their school. However, in order to better serve all District students, the FUHSD continues to implement actions/services related to improving school climate.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
34103480136275|Fortune|6|Fortune annually administers a survey to parents at all grades served. In 2018-19, Fortune administered this survey to kindergarten through 9th grade parents/guardians. Key finding was that 91 percent of the parents were satisfied or strongly satisfied with their school. Additionally, 90 percent of parents felt their school administrator was respectful and professional and 93 percent rated their school culture as positive. Parents also felt that the parent education and involvement opportunities were helpful, with 95 percent of them rating those as helpful or very helpful.  The survey results relate to the goals established in the Local Control Funding Formula priorities in the Local Control and Accountability Plan. Fortune chose this particular survey because it allows Fortune to calculate school level results on a range of factors including school environment, culture, academic program, parent involvement and administrator effectiveness.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
30664980000000|Fountain Valley Elementary|6|Fountain Valley School District is committed to providing a safe, supportive, and nurturing environment that promotes engagement of parents and students, as well as school connectedness.  In odd-numbered years, the District administers a local climate survey with students in Grades 3-5 and students in Grades 6-8.  The survey, like the California Healthy Kids Survey administered in even-numbered years, is a confidential survey of youth resilience, protective factors, and risk behaviors that is completed anonymously by students during the school day to ensure maximum participation.  These surveys enable school administration and student leadership groups to collect and analyze data in order to improve school climate.  The data collected in these surveys is aggregated with school suspension and attendance data to derive a more comprehensive school site analysis of student engagement.    On the 2018-19 Local Climate Survey of Elementary Students (3rd-5th Grade), 83% of students reported that the “feel safe at school,” and 78% of students feel that “staff help prevent bullying.”  In addition, 90% of elementary students reported that they felt “respected by staff,” and 86% of students reported feeling as if the “staff care about them.”  Finally, 76% of students reported that they “feel part of the school” indicating a very high level of school connectedness across FVSD’s seven elementary schools. On the 2018-10 Local Climate Survey of Middle School Students (6th – 8th Grade), 74% of students reported that they “feel safe at school,” and 60% of students feel that “staff help prevent bullying.”  In addition, 77% of middle school students reported that they felt “respected by staff,” and 72% of students reported feeling as if the “staff care about them.”  Finally, 59% of students reported that they “feel part of the school” indicating that school connectedness should be an area of focus for FVSD middle schools during the 2019-20 school year.  Improving school climates continues to be an area of focus across Fountain Valley School District.  Throughout the 2019-20 school year, the district leadership team will be working closely with principals, school counselors, and school staff to improve school climates on each campus.  Professional learning opportunities throughout the school year will include formative data related to attendance and suspension, and schools will be sharing practices that they identify through the school leadership team process for improving social-emotional outcomes for students.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
10621580000000|Fowler Unified|6|DATA: On the LCAP survey, 479 students, representing grades 5, 7, and 11 submitted responses to the nine items that assessed students’ attitudes toward the District’s LCAP Goal 5: Providing a Positive School Environment: 75% of students feel like they are part of their school. 83% of students felt safe at school. 82% of students reported that teachers and other adults at their school care about them.  80% reported being happy with their school 80% reported that the schoolyard and school building are clean.  Disaggregated by school, the survey yielded the following results:              School Connectedness    School Safety Marshall       98%           97% Malaga      93%           91% Fremont      85%           94% SMS     77%           81% FHS       57%           74%  MEANING: The data reveal that, while Fowler USD has overall high rates of student connectedness, and students generally feel safe at school, both feelings tend to decline as students grow older.  The district recognizes and continues to address the challenge of providing school environments that contribute to school connectedness.  Such environments are characterized by high academic standards coupled with strong teacher support; an environment in which adult and student relationships are positive and respectful; and a physically and emotionally safe school environment.    USE: To address the social and emotional needs of students, in 2018-19, FUSD added three Student Support Specialists across the District.  The services and systems implemented by the new staff included trainings (Suicide Awareness, De-escalation, Mindfulness, etc.), counseling services (small group and one-on-one), on-site support for students and staff (in and out of class), and a referral and required permission process for the services. Staff, parents, and students were all able to refer someone to the Student Support staff, through a confidential referral system. All schools utilized the Positive Behavior and Intervention Strategies (PBIS), and were recognized as PBIS Gold Medal schools for their implementation efforts. In order to create learning environments necessary to meet the changing and refining needs of our most at-risk students, the district revamped the library layout to enhance the learning experience of students by upgrading furniture, technology and library equipment. Survey responses bear out that these efforts have produced the desired results.  The percentage of students expressing feelings of school connectedness increased from a baseline of 57% in 2015 to 75% in 2018-19.  The percentage feeling safe at school also increased to 83% from a baseline of 77%.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
01612590132514|Francophone Charter School of Oakland|6|1.  DATA: Key learnings from the survey results are as follows.   Student perceptions of staff respect for youth are high.   86% of students surveyed responded "extremely respectful" or "quite respectful" to the question "How respectful are your teachers toward you?"   Similarly, 77% of students surveyed responded "a tremendous amount of support" or "quite a bit of support" to the question "How much support do the adults at your school give you?".    2.  MEANING: While perceptions of students about staff are encouraging, the survey analysis revealed an area of growth in the area of relationships between and among students.  When asked "How much respect do students at your school show you?" 59% of students surveyed responded with "a tremendous amount" or "quite a bit of respect".  41% responded with "some", "a little bit", or "none".    3.  Survey results, particularly the discrepancy between how much students feel respected by adults as opposed to respected by their peers, indicate a need for increased inquiry and action research in the area of peer relationships and interactions at school.   The school's culture plan for 2019-2020 seeks to strengthen peer relationships and their respect to each other through several actions.  One is establishing rituals of appreciation in weekly classroom Bravo! drawings and in monthly school-wide assemblies.    A second action is the implementation of a middle school advisory program, taught by one "homeroom" teacher, and using a newly purchased social-emotional learning curriculum in the upper grades, called Second Step for middle school.   We hope to see improvement on this survey item this year, based on these actions, among others, that the school has taken to seek improvement in the area of climate and culture.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
51713810000000|Franklin Elementary|6|A local educational survey was given to parents of students in grades kindergarten through eighth that provided a valid measure of participation. The results of this survey were shared at the April 29 Site Council meeting, the May 14 Franklin Elementary School Board meeting, and the staff meeting held on April 8. Findings from this survey indicated that 100% of Franklin parents agree that their child is receiving a quality education. The parent survey also indicated that 96% of parents report that their child likes to come to school and 94% of respondents believe that Franklin School is a safe and orderly place for students to learn. The parent survey highlighted safety as a school priority for 2019 -2020. The staff will continue to be trained in  Active Shooter Training as well as participating in monthly safety drills. A third phase of security cameras was installed in the fall of 2019 . A student survey was also given to all students in grades kindergarten through 8th grade. Findings from the student survey indicated that 97% of students felt that Franklin School was safe and clean. The results of the student survey also indicated that 92% of students felt that attendance was important. Students indicated that areas for improvement were: swings for the upper grade playground, longer recesses and more field trips. The Parents Club has been asked to help support field trips for the 2019 -2020 school year. A motivational speaker was brought in to talk to the 6th - 8th grade students about peer pressure, identity and goals.  A bullying survey was taken by 7th and 8th grade students, with a 1:1 conference with each student by the Vice Principal to discuss the results of the survey.  Students set personal goals (based on the survey) for the next trimester.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
43694500000000|Franklin-McKinley Elementary|6|The Franklin-McKinley School District has a targeted focus on attendance, behavior, and social-emotional learning of our students.  One of the ways we measure students’ social-emotional well-being is through the California Healthy Kids Survey.   During the 2018-2019 school year, our 5th and 7th grade students completed the California Healthy Kids Survey. A total of 348 5th grade and 385 7th grade students completed the survey. Overall, an average of 63% of 5th grade students scored in the high range for school connectedness and 55% of 7th grade students scored in the high range for school connectedness. In addition, 53% of 7th graders, and 67% of 5th graders report feeling safe or very safe at school.   We have seen an increase in our data around school connectedness from 2017-2018 to 2018-2019. The 5th grade cohort increased by 21% in the area of school connectedness however we saw a 13% decrease in the area of 5th grade student’s reporting feeling safe or very safe at school. In addition, we saw a 38% increase in 7th grade students reporting feeling connected to school and 4% increase in 7th grade students feeling safe at school.   As a result of the data, an area of growth is around the need to strengthen students' feeling safe at school.  We have increased our student support systems including hiring school social workers and piloting social-emotional learning curriculum scaling supports and resources through 8th grade. This will help us better target student needs and address the perceived unsafe feelings across the grade levels. In addition, we are in the initial implementation stages for Multi-Tiered System of Supports across the district as well as testing and learning within one of the district’s schools. A continued focus for the district is prevention and early intervention therefore we continue to focus on early learning providing professional development for teachers to design rigorous and engaging learning experiences as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid Model.  The district is considered to have met the standard as a survey was distributed to at least one grade level in all available grade spans and results were analyzed and reported.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
01611760000000|Fremont Unified|6|DATA: The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 and a total of 8211 responses were received. When asked questions related to school connectedness, 78% of 5th grade students, 67% of 7th grade students, 59% of 9th grade students, and 52% of 11th grade students reporting feeling high levels of school connectedness.   The results from student subgroups were analyzed for grades 7, 9, and 11. The following student groups reported lower percentages of school connectedness when compared to the district average of all students: African American (7th and 9th grades), American Indian or Alaska Native (11th grade), Hispanic/Latino (7th, 9th, and 11th grades), Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander (9th grade), White (7th grade), and Two or More Races (7th, 9th, and 11th grades).  Students also responded to questions related to their perception of school safety. 87% of 5th grade students reported ‘most of the time’ or ‘all of the time’ when asked questions about school being perceived as safe. Secondary students responded to similar questions and the following percentages reflect students who chose ‘very safe’ or ‘safe’ when asked regarding their perceptions of school safety: 7th grade: 66%, 9th grade: 64%, and 11th grade: 64%.  Student subgroup results were analyzed for 7th, 9th, and 11th grades. The following student groups reported lower perceptions of school safety when compared to the district average of all students: African American (7th, 9th, and 11th grades), American Indian or Alaska Native (9th grade), Hispanic/Latino (7th, 9th, and 11th grades), Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander (7th, 9th, and 11th grades), and Two or More Races (7th, 9th, and 11th grades).  MEANING: The results of the 2018-19 administration of the CA Healthy Kids Survey results were very similar to the previous year’s data. The strengths include a high level of school connectedness and a very high measurement of school safety among 5th grade students; a high level of school connectedness among 7th grade students; a consistent measure of school safety in all secondary levels. The challenges are a decrease of school connectedness measurements from 7th to 11th grade students and lower than expected measurements on the perception of school safety among secondary students.  USE: The results of the California Healthy Kids Survey are an important metric for LCAP Goal 4. This survey data will be shared at future LCAP meetings and informational sessions as goals are developed for next year.  District results will be shared with site principals along with their individual school reports. These will be shared with School Site Councils as they develop their school’s Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) goals. Results will be shared with ASB Directors and the student advisory group SURFBoardE to solicit student ideas as to how these metrics can be improved.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
43694680000000|Fremont Union High|6|FUHSD LCAP Goal 3: every student will feel safe, cared about, and both academically and socially engaged in school. During the 2018-19 school year the District Wellness Council provided input on implementation of the Student Wellness Survey, worked on creating a plan for review of the data, and then reviewed an initial round of data. In January 2019 the District administered this survey to 10,021 students across all grades, and 6 sites.  Results from the Student Wellness Survey include 54% of students found their coursework interesting (increase from 51.2% in 2016); 3% of students experienced bullying or harassment (physical, verbal or online/cyber) (decrease from 4.2% in 2016); and 61% of students felt adults at their school care about their emotional well-being (significant increase from 37.6% in 2016). The District’s decision to adopt and implement new bell schedules for the 2018-2019 school year which include a later start time and three tutorial periods per week continue to be carefully monitored. Survey data shows that more students are sleeping between 6-8 hours per night.    Despite significant efforts to increase behavior, drug and alcohol interventions and alternatives to suspension and expulsion for students, FUHSD saw an increase in discipline incidents again in 2018-19. The District’s school climate committee and leadership teams have continued to analyze the potential factors that led to this increase, and examine and implement school and district practices that will address these concerns. Administrators from each school site in charge of campus climate continue to meet monthly with district administrators. The topics of attendance, truancy and discipline data were standing items. Other agenda items included a presentation by the Deputy District Attorney and local law enforcement, custodial interrogation, Title IX, and discussion about suspension and expulsion notices. The Student Conduct Specialists from each of the 6 sites in the district met for training on Trauma Informed Care strategies, trends in adolescent drug use, and to align discipline and intervention practices.   In 2018-19 FUHSD piloted a completely revamped Chronic Absentee Intervention (CAI) process to replace the old truancy process. Following initial notice to parents this process includes a school site level Student Attendance Review Team (SART) meeting that draws several key staff members together with the student and family to address any barriers to attendance and a district-level Student Attendance Review Board (SARB) meeting. All of the student-facing letters and other materials involved in this new process have been re-written to ensure positive, pro-attendance language.  Each school site is able to articulate their Tier 1-3 supports that exist and areas where gaps continue to be addressed. These are the areas of focus for continuous improvement. They are reflected in the annual school plans with progress provided through mid-year updates.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
45699970000000|French Gulch-Whiskeytown Elementary|6|FGWS is a micro small school. Student enrollment TK-8 generally runs between 24-30 students. Statistical data is somewhat misleading since our sample size is so small that it makes it difficult to draw meaningful conclusions. That being said, surveys are distributed each year to all parents as well as to students in grades 4-8. Each of the state priorities are addressed in the surveys with opportunity to write additional comments on each item addressed. Students are generally positive about feeling safe at school, that their teachers care about them, and that they know at least one staff member that they can go to if they have a problem. Students acknowledge that they understand the relationship between their personal efforts and academic outcomes. If they could change anything it's be to have a greater student population to widen their peer group. Parents have expressed that they also feel that the school provides a safe environment for their students, that staff is receptive to concerns and that the priorities established in our local LCAP are sound, representing good choices for this community.|2019-03-11|At such a small school, it is sometimes difficult to dilute the impact an individual may have on the climate of the school as a whole. The staff works tirelessly with students, parents and community to make the environment of FGWS a sanctuary. It takes effort, training and a measure of  finesse to meet the needs of everyone but It remains a priority.|Met|2019
12628286116289|Freshwater Charter Middle|6|Freshwater Charter Middle School administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every year.  In 2018-19 the CHKS was administered for our middle school and West Ed compiled a School Climate Report Card, based on our student  responses related to school climate.  Our overall School Climate Index Score was 318, down from 326 in 2017-18.   In 2018-19 the results were as follows: The scaled score for School Connectedness was 315 points, up from 300 in 2017-18 The scaled score for Caring Relationships was 344 points, up from 316 in 2017-18 The scaled score for Perceived School Safety was 334 points, up from 304 in 2017-18    School Climate is addressed in LCAP Goal #3, and the District was awarded a grant to bolster our Multi Tiered Systems of Support school wide for students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
12628280000000|Freshwater Elementary|6|Freshwater Elementary School administers a Parent Input Survey each year, alternating between the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) and a local survey.  In 2018-19 the CHKS was administered and the results are as follows: -93% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that the school allows input and welcomes parents' contributions -74% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that the school actively seeks the input of parents before making important decisions -97% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that the school encourages parents to be active partners in educating their children -93% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that they feel welcome to participate at the school|2019-10-08||Met|2019
10101080000000|Fresno County Office of Education|6|The LEA administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for grades 7-12 in the spring of 2019. The CHKS captured a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. 167 students completed the CHKS. There were differences between student groups were found in the area of school supports, with White students reporting 39% high scores, Hispanic students reporting 40%, and 48% of African-American students. However, only 32% of Native American students scored in the high range. 54% of Hispanic and 62% of African-American students perceived high school safety while 59% of White students reported high scores. 38% of African-American and 40% of Native American students stated that they had been harassed, as compared to only 26% of Hispanic and 18% of White students. 25% of African-American and Hispanic students described feeling chronically sad or hopeless, compared with 36% of White students.  In regards to gender groups, female and male students received similar scores in school supports: 40% and 42%, respectively. In school safety however, 87% of female students reported high scores as compared to 56% of their male classmates. In contrast, 50% of female students reported harassment, while only 26% of male students did. In the areas of drug and alcohol abuse, female student scores were at least twice as high as male students. Overall, 50% of students felt staff were caring and had high expectations for their participation in school. 67% of students reported no incidents of harassment. 46% of students admitted to current usage of alcohol or drugs. 29% of all students claimed chronic sadness or feelings of hopelessness. 15% reported seriously considering suicide. 35% of students admitted to gang involvement. Specific items of particular relevance to school safety and connectedness include reasons for truancy. For example, 7% of students noted emotional health issues interfered with the ability to attend school; roughly the same percentage claimed substance and alcohol abuse as their primary difficulty, while 11% claimed sleep deprivation as the primary cause. In addition, only 26% of students stated that their parents were involved in their education. Analysis of the data demonstrates that students will continue to benefit from counseling and mentoring services from LEA staff and collaborative agencies. Areas of student need include substance and alcohol abuse counseling; addressing gang involvement; redirection away from acts of violence and criminal activity; reduced truancy from school; and addressing emotional wellness concerns. The LEA will continue to partner with collaborative agencies and utilize appropriate staff to address areas of need, including the use of Positive Behavior Intervention and Support, integrating social-emotional learning, and trauma-informed practices. In addition, student perception of low parent involvement mirrors data collected during the LCAP process.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
10621660000000|Fresno Unified|6|Fresno Unified School District conducts a culture and climate survey of students in grades 4-12 to better understand student perceptions of school environments. Among the questions, two key questions offer measures of perceptions of safety, belonging and the support of one or more nurturing adults in the school setting. In 2018-19, 71.2% of elementary students and 50.7% of secondary students responded favorably to the statement, "I feel like I am part of this school." 67.8% of elementary students and 53.3% of secondary students responded favorably to the statement, "There is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me."|2019-10-16||Met|2019
16639900116699|Frontier Elementary|6|Pioneer District administered a student survey addressing school connectedness and a sense of safety in the spring of 2019. The survey was administered to students in grades 4-8 with 651 students participating in the survey.   The survey addresses school connectedness through questions that ask if the student has an adult they can trust at school; if they look forward to coming to school; support they receive or can expect to receive from school staff with issues of problems they may face; and if the teacher talks to the student about areas of strength and improvement. Students in 4th and 5th grade who participated in the survey attend two elementary school sites in the district. In grades 4 and 5, 90.9% of students expressed positive responses in the area of connectedness. The 6th through 8th grade students attend the district middle school. In 6th through 8th grade, students gave positive responses 76.6% of the time in regards to a sense of connectedness. This is an increase of approximately 3% over the previous year’s results.   The survey also sought information regarding the sense of safety students have through questions relating to knowing the school rules for behavior, whether or not they felt that inappropriate behavior was addressed and had consequences; if they felt safe while at school; and if the school was in a good, clean condition. In grades 4 and 5, 97.7% of students gave positive responses to questions regarding a sense of safety while at school. In 6th through 8th grade, 88.6% of students gave positive responses.  Furthermore, the District surveyed parents and families about school climate and safety as part of its annual parent survey given in the spring of 2019. Overall, 98.5% of parents and families responded positively to their sense of connectedness to the schools, and 99.6% responded positively that they felt their children are safe while at school, an almost perfect rating.  Pioneer District is in its second year of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). MTSS is an integrated, comprehensive framework for all district and school programs including academic instruction, behavior instruction, and social emotional learning. The expected benefits of MTSS are improved leverage of resources and services for all students; strategies that effectively support student success; and evidence-based, data-driven, district-wide, and school-wide supports for academic, behavior, and social-emotional learning (SEL). Participation in MTSS last year resulted in the addition of SEL instruction; in depth self-assessment of site and district level programs, policies, and needs to support students and staff; and the plans to implement an SEL universal screener for students.  Additionally, the district uses Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) model to improve school climate for all students. These programs are supported by action items in the Local Control and Accountability Plan and professional development for staff.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
15634790000000|Fruitvale Elementary|6|Each year, the Fruitvale School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5 and 7.  The results are reviewed by school and district administration.  Both surveys from 2015-16 and from 2017-18 were reviewed for the purposes of comparison of data for school connected and school safety.  Although it is always difficult to determine whether seventh grade students take a survey seriously, it is concerning to note that there is a decline in many of the criteria for seventh grade school engagement and supports and school safety. School Connectedness is particularly concerning since there has been a conscious effort in the past two years to increase school connectedness through the newly instituted advisory period.  This allows for students to spend the first fifteen minutes every morning with a class and teacher that stays consistent through their two years in junior high.  The advisory period also has pertinent topics for student discussion unrelated to academics and more focused on social emotional learning.  The most recent survey was given just three months into the advisory period, so it will be important to see data from last year’s survey.   Also concerning is the decrease in students feeling safe at school.  Although there is still a majority that feel safe, almost 40% responded in the negative.  This year, it will be a focus for school administrators to determine why students are not feeling safe and if there is any specific areas or times when they are particularly vulnerable.   In a breakdown of caring adult relationships, 51% of students either reported that it is “pretty true” or “very much true” that there is a staff member who really cares about them, and 61% of students reported that it is “pretty true” or “very much true” that there is a staff member who listens to them when they have something to say.   The district understands that there is a strong correlation between caring adult relationships and high expectations with academic achievement.  Additionally, the MTSS supports that are being implemented seek to increase student well-being in the areas of academic, behavioral and social emotional-learning support.  Additional actions implemented last year and moving forward include 1. Implementation of 15 minute advisory period each day to develop consistent, positive student staff relationships and an daily accounting of students being noticed if they are not at school. 2. Implementation of Multi-Tiered system of support, including universal screening in both Reading and Mathematics. 3. Intervention based on student mastery of mathematics standards, at least once per month based on assessment data. 4. Implementation of “push-in” resource specialist services to allow students additional support in classrooms with their peers and increase adult to student ratios in classrooms. 5. Implementation of COR (culture of respect) behavior strategies, including COR bucks, reward|2019-10-08|6. This year, the school administration will meet with represented student demographic groups to explore student feeling about school safety.  We expect to see improvement in data in the 2018-19 Health Kids Survey data as several of these strategies were implemented in the last two years.  Discussions will continue to occur with student groups, staff and administrators to determine specific responses to student concerns.|Met|2019
12626790109975|Fuente Nueva Charter|6|Students in grades third through fifth were given a survey in the Fall of 2018 to measure the school's climate. Due to several factors, our school opts to not participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey. Therefore we created our own survey that measures a student's sense of safety and connectedness at school.   On the survey, 86.6% of students reported feeling safe at school, and 12.8% said the neither feel safe or don't feel safe. Additionally, 87.5% of students reported that there is an adult at school that they feel comfortable to speak to if they are mad/sad or scared. Overall our survey results demonstrated that students do feel that they are a part of the school and that teachers treat students fairly. At the same time, the results demonstrated that the survey could be improved to more effectively capture the student's perspective. Through our work on improving our multi tiered system of support, we are seeking other surveys to use to gather information.   The teachers were surveyed in the fall of 2018 regarding their own connectedness to their staff and students. The teachers all agreed or strongly agreed that they feel connected to all staff and regularly collaborate. With regards to student connection, teachers agreed that they feel connected to most students, but some indicated that there are some students who are difficult to build rapport with to enhance connection. Overall the results of the survey demonstrate a positive school climate in which students are supported to grow and learn.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
30665060000000|Fullerton Elementary|6|OVERVIEW: The Fullerton School District (FSD) continued its partnership with the CA nonprofit, YouthTruth, to administer valid, reliable, and reading-level appropriate school climate student surveys. Administered in January 2019, the surveys gathered feedback from over 9,000 students in grades 3-7 across all campuses. The following data represents ratings of the “typical” or median-rated FSD school for a given theme or question.  YOUTHTRUTH ELEMENTARY STUDENT SURVEY: Elementary students provided feedback on a range of research-based themes. Elementary questions were rated on a 1.0 to 3.0 scale, with any average score above 2.0 considered favorable. With regard to these themes, all student survey data was favorable: Engagement – 2.9, Rigor – 2.5, Instructional Methods – 2.7, Relationships – 2.8, and Culture – 2.3. Relative to last year, all ratings maintained general consistency, with a strong increase in student engagement.  YOUTHTRUTH MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENT SURVEY: Middle school students provided feedback on similar themes. Survey questions were rated on a 5.0 scale with any average score above 3.5 considered favorable. Relative to last year, ratings maintained general consistency, with all results at or very near to favorable. Ratings are as follow:  Engagement – 3.4, Rigor – 3.8, Relationships – 3.4, Peers Belonging and Collaboration – 3.4, and Culture – 3.5. The majority of middle school students (84%) continue to feel that their teachers believe that they can get a good grade if they try. Also notably affirming is the increased percentage of students who have at least one adult at school who could help with a personal problem (up nine percentage points).   RESPECT: The majority of students believe that school adults are respectful of people from different backgrounds (84% elementary; 76% of middle school). Eighty-six percent of elementary students feel that their teacher treats them with respect, and 70% of middle school students feel the same. In the words of one 5th grader, “Students and staff treat each other with respect by listening to one another to see what they have to say. They also don’t make fun of anyone for what they look like or what race they are.”  SAFETY: Middle school bullying dropped six percentage points from last year. Most families (90% elementary; 84% middle) believe that their child’s school is a safe place for learning.   CARE: Eighty-one percent of elementary students think their teacher cares about them, and 71% of middle school students feel that most school adults treat students with respect. In the words of a 3rd grader, “The best thing about my school is the people. Teachers, friends, aides, they’re all so nice. I think they care about me and everyone else.”|2019-10-15||Met|2019
30665140000000|Fullerton Joint Union High|6|The District conducts an annual LCAP Stakeholder survey.  The survey is actually three separate surveys, one for each of the three stakeholder groups, parents, staff members, and students.  The surveys are built upon goals, stakeholder values, and the eight State priorities required to be part of the LCAP.  Over 9,100 responses were received:  Parents - 1,029 responses (English = 933, Spanish = 59, and Korean = 37), Students - 7,494 responses, Staff members - 630 responses.  In addition, the District held three focus groups at each school to get face to face feedback and input.  The LCAP survey was very extensive and included parents of unduplicated population students.  Based on the results of the survey, 89% of students said they feel safe at their school or were unconcerned about safety issues.  Fifty-four percent felt that they were connected to their school.  However, over seventy-eight percent said the school provides multiple ways for them to get involved.  Sixty-five percent said they believe they have access to mental health support if they need it.  Seventy-eight percent said they feel comfortable talking with teachers or other District-employed adults on campus.    The District evaluated the data and concluded that the District, though providing mental health supports to students previously, needed to step up its efforts to provide mental health services and training to both students and staff members.  In addition, the District will work with school sites to increase student awareness of and participation in school activities, clubs, sports, and other ways students can connect with positive peers, positive activities, and positive adults on campus.  Barriers still exist for students who are acquiring English as a second language, foster youth, homeless youth and students with disabilities.  Though there have been significant gains among these student populations, the District is working with its schools to eliminate barriers and get more students to feel welcome and as though they matter at the school.  The District hired a teacher on special assignment for each District school titled the EL Family Liaison.  This person works directly with students and their families who are EL.  Since they have begun working with the EL population, DELAC and ELAC numbers have grown steadily.  More EL parents and students are getting involved in decision making bodies at their school and at the District.  Several EL students have been a part of the District Advisory Committee (DAC) which directly influences the content of the LCAP.  Mental health services have been significantly increased to provide direct services to students with disabilities, foster youth, homeless students, and students who are experiencing trauma that is effecting their academic performance.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
50757390131185|Fusion Charter|6|Fusion Charter students most recently participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey in the spring of 2018. The survey was made available to all students in Grades 7-12 with 92 students responding, which was 68% of the total 136 students enrolled. Students answered questions about perceptions of school safety and overall feelings of connection to school within the past 12 months. Since many of the students attended more than one school in the year prior to the survey, students may have considered schools other than Fusion in their responses.  This is reflected in more than one third of students indicating they were in a physical fight on campus.  While many students are referred to Fusion due to fights on other campuses, only a handful of brief fights have occurred in the past two years on campus.   Overall, students report a positive climate at Fusion Charter. They feel safe, connected to caring adults at the school and feel their teachers are fair and have high expectations for them.  Our small school size and high staff to student ratio provides help for students struggling with health and safety issues. We have two campus supervisors and a full time school counselor available to our students daily. Since August 2017 we have had a therapy dog in training on campus.   Nevertheless, a number of statistics are cause for alarm. In each grade between 8% and 25% of the students identified as gang members and between 15% and 53% were currently using drugs or alcohol.  Of even greater concern is that between 17% and 57% of students in each grade level who answered the survey had experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness and approximately quarter in each of three grade levels had considered suicide.  One might assume that the students who were absent when the survey was administered would have similar or more extreme responses.   While an average of between 23% and 45% of the students at each grade level stated that it is very much true that the school has high expectations for students, only 1% to 14% of the same students reported that they had meaningful participation in school activities.    In order to foster more feelings of connectedness and participation in school activities, over the past two and a half years Fusion has increased the number of activity opportunities. We added girls volleyball and basketball teams, junior high and high school boys basketball, coed softball and bowling to the available team sports. We have a student council with monthly student rallies where we recognize outstanding students and have fun activities planned by the student council, including a senior event and participation in a countywide alternative education prom, and a daily comic con club open to all students. We have increased arts and sciences field trips, including Pacific beaches and overnight trips to Yosemite.  Students participate in college visits and have connections with community organizations for volunteer and future career opportunities.|2018-11-16|In-house surveys confirm that students approve of the increased activities, with high ratings going to college campus visits.  Opened-ended responses about how to improve the school focused on help via tutoring and increased hands on activities, both of which Fusion has implemented. In addition, Fusion exhibits a calm and orderly environment.  In the past three school years there have been no expellable offenses and no suspensions, due to the school’s commitment to alternatives to suspension and mindfulness of trauma-informed practices with at-risk youth.|Met|2019
34765050101832|Futures High|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive culture of trust and respect among staff members, where Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647330108886|Gabriella Charter|6|In the spring season of 2018-19, students in 5th and 7th grade took the California Healthy Kids Survey. This was the first year of implementation of the survey at Gabriella Charter School. Overall, the results, were very positive and aligned with other historical school experience data.  Data was used to identify strengths and weaknesses in the school’s culture and the socio-emotional well-being of the student body.  Key results of this survey displayed below show the strong and positive culture created at GCS, highlighting that our students feel GCS is a place that encourages them to solve problems, treat others with compassion, and reach out for assistance when needed.  In 2018-19:  -73% of elementary students surveyed felt happy most or all of the time they are at school and only 12% of middle school students surveyed disagreed or strongly disagreed with feeling happy at the school  -83% of elementary students surveyed felt like they were a part of the school most or all of the time and only 12% of middle school students surveyed disagreed or strongly disagreed with feeling part of the school.  -86% of elementary students surveyed reported they felt safe most or all of the time they are at school and 6% of middle school students surveyed disagreed or strongly disagreed with feeling safe at school.  -97% of elementary students surveyed felt students were nice to other students most or all of the time (note, a similar question was not asked of middle school students).  -96% of elementary students surveyed felt that teachers and other grownups care about students and only 10% of middle school students felt was not true at all that there was a teacher or some other adult at my school who really cares about me.  These data points reveal that generally students feel they are part of a positive school community.  However, several item responses also indicate that students want more meaningful opportunities for participation at school. For example, only 28% of elementary students surveyed and 15% of middle school students surveyed felt like they helped decide class activities or rules most or all of the time. Only 19% elementary students surveyed felt like teachers asked them what they wanted to learn about most or all of the time and 26% of middle school students surveyed felt like they do things that make a difference. Improving ways for students to meaningfully participate is an identified area of growth for GCS.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19647330135509|Gabriella Charter 2|6|In the spring season of 2018-19, students in 3rd grades took the California Healthy Kids Survey. This was the first year of implementation of the survey at Gabriella Charter School 2. Overall, the results, were very positive and informative for the school's development.  Data was used to identify strengths and weaknesses in the school’s culture and the socio-emotional well-being of the student body.  Key results of this survey displayed below show the strong and positive culture created at GCS 2, highlighting that our students feel GCS 2 is a place that encourages them to solve problems, treat others with compassion, and reach out for assistance when needed.  In 2018-19: -86% of students felt happy most or all of the time they are at school. -86% of students felt like they were a part of the school most or all of the time. -81% of students reported they felt safe most or all of the time they are at school. -93% of students felt students were nice to other students most or all of the time. -90% of students felt that teachers and other grownups care about students.  These data points reveal that generally students feel they are part of a positive school community.  However, several item responses also indicate that students want more meaningful opportunities for participation at school. For example, only 38% of students felt like they helped decide class activities or rules most or all of the time and 43% of students felt like teachers asked them what they wanted learn about most or all of the time. Improving ways for students to meaningfully participate is an identified area of growth for GCS 2.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
34673480000000|Galt Joint Union Elementary|6|The Gallup Student Poll (GSP) is administered annually and measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspirations and career/financial literacy of GJUESD learners in grades 5 through 8.   Key questions provide GJUESD with critical information on school environment, school connectedness, caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation among others.  Fall 2018 district-wide data reflects a slight decrease in each of the key areas when compared to the previous year.  Some schools demonstrated gains specifically in the areas of entrepreneurial aspirations and career/financial literacy which could be due to the increase of CTE awareness and opportunities. The CalSCHLS survey system will be implemented for the 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
34673550000000|Galt Joint Union High|6|In the spring of 2019, we administered the Panorama Education Secondary Student Survey instruments to students in all grade levels (9-12), which include question sets specific to school safety and school connectedness. This year, we had 38% of our students participate in the survey.  Overall, 69% of our students rated our schools favorably in terms of school safety, indicating an overall sense of safety and well-being among our students.  This is a 2 point decrease from the previous year. Approximately 80% of students responded favorably to questions regarding physical altercations, theft, and vandalism, indicating that these incidents are infrequent on our campuses, while only 62% of our students responded favorably to questions about bullying and harassment. While 69% of our non-special education students rated our schools favorably in safety, only 67% of our special education students did so. Also, our White, English only students (65%) felt less safe in our schools than our Hispanic/Latino (71%) and English Learner/Reclassified students (72%). Upon further analysis, those groups that reported a lower sense of safety overall, also responded less favorably to questions about bullying and harassment on our campuses.  In response to these results, we are ramping up anti-bullying efforts in our schools, by offering programs and supports to students, and implementing the Stop-It hotline for students to report incidents.   Also, we have trained our staff on ALICE strategies for responding to an immediate threat on campus and will be implementing drills for students throughout the year to prepare them to respond to a threat on campus in a way that will increase their safety.   In the area of School Connectedness, 57% of our students responded favorably, indicating that they felt that they belonged at school and had developed a sense of connection with the school and student body. This is a 2 point decrease from last school year. 60% of our students said that they feel close to people in the school, while 55% said that they were happy to be at their school, and 54% felt that their teachers treated students fairly. There is no significant difference between students of lower socioeconomic status students, students with disabilities, or English learner students and the general population of students. Though, our Hispanic/Latino students (56%) feel somewhat less connectedness to school, than our White students (60%).  Our Leadership and Link Crew classes are classes are working on new ways to increase school connectedness among our entire student body.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
30665220000000|Garden Grove Unified|6|Building a positive school climate is necessary for school success. GGUSD administers the Strategic Plan Survey annually to all students in grades 3-12, and the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) biennially to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11.  Both of these surveys measure perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The data below is from the spring 2019 administration of the Strategic Plan Survey and the fall 2018 administration of the CHKS.  The Strategic Plan Survey contains similar items to CHKS, and collects responses from a much larger sample size, from over 28,000 students or 70% of students in grades three through twelve. The Strategic Plan Survey contains items that measure “school connectedness,” which include the following results:  * 88% of students are happy at school (24% neutral) * 91% are proud to attend their school (23% neutral) * 86% feel a part of the school (26% neutral) * 95% believe they have opportunities for meaningful participation (12% neutral)  A very small percent express disagreement with the statements on the survey related to school connectedness and belonging.  Results from most recent CHKS show a similar trend.  96% of students in grade 5 report a high to moderate level of school connectedness. 95% of students in grade 7, 91% in grade 9, 89% in grade 11, and 89% of non-traditional students reported a high to moderate level of school connectedness. In secondary grades, males have a higher percent than females in the area of school connectedness.  GGUSD has provided school sites with increased funding and opportunities to develop extended day and enrichment programs for students.   The Strategic Plan Survey results found that 66% of students in grades 3-12 agree and strongly agree feel safe at school. Another 24% neither agree nor disagree, which indicates a feeling of neutrality on the subject. On the item measuring whether students perceive bullying to be a problem, 14% reported feeling bullied.  The district has implemented safe ways for students to report bullying, where only 5% of students did not know how to report bullying.  The results from the CHKS confirm these findings: 83% of students in grade 5, 69% in grade 7, 61% in grade 9, 58% in grade 11, and 66% of non-traditional students report feeling safe at school.   GGUSD has implemented numerous programs and initiatives to increase overall school safety and improve school climate.  Every school offers a school-wide anonymous tip line for bullying.  Programs and professional development to support student services, student safety, student climate, discipline, and student mental health/counseling include: Restorative Practices, Youth Mental Health First Aide, Positive Behavioral Interventions and Support (PBIS), school-based counseling, social worker supports, the GGUSD Family Resource Center, AB2246 Suicide Prevention trainings.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
12628360000000|Garfield Elementary|6|Key learning from Garfield's Annual Student Survey indicates that students feel emotionally and physically safe while they are at school. Students feel connected to their fellow students and staff members. The disaggregated results from our survey indicate that students would appreciate having additional academic choice in their learning while at school. Garfield school district will focus on creating additional academic choice for students via professional development during the 2019-20 school year|2019-11-14||Met|2019
19645500000000|Garvey Elementary|6|Garvey School District uses a local survey comprised of twenty-two questions (for Grade 5) and twenty-seven questions (for Grades 7-8) that are adapted from the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to assess student perceptions of school safety and connections in grades 5, 6 and 7. The survey utilizes a 5-level scale and each level includes a range of percentages, as indicated below.  Positive Indicators: Level 1 (0-20%), Level 2 (21-40%), Level 3 (41-60%), Level 4 (61-80%), and Level 5 (81-100%) Negative Indicators: Level 1 (81-100%), Level 2 (61-80%), Level 3 (41-60%), Level 4 (21-40%), and Level 5 (0-20%)  The ultimate goal is to attain Level 4 (4 points) or above for each indicator. The 2018-19 growth target is to have an average level (points) of 4 or above.  The following is a summary of the key findings on School Climate for 2018-19.   Key Findings for Grade 5 Grade 5 Average Level (Points): 4.5   School Engagement & Supports  School Connectedness (79%)  Academic Motivation (81%)  Caring Adult Relationships (82%)  High Expectations (+38%)  Meaningful Participation (84%)  School Safety  Feel safe at school (81%)  Been hit or pushed (34%)  Mean rumors spread about you (27%)   Been called bad names or mean jokes made about you (33%)   Saw a weapon at school (5%)  Disciplinary Environment  Students well-behaved (65%)   Students treated fairly when break school rules (44%)  Students treated with respect (74%) Lifetime Substance Use  Alcohol or drug use (2%)   Cigarette smoking (2%)   E-cigarette (3%)   Key Findings for Grades 7-8 Grade 7 Average Level (Points): 4.5 Grade 8 Average Level (Points): 4.0   School Engagement & Supports  School Connectedness (Gr.7: 67%; Gr.8: 51%)   Academic Motivation (Gr.7: 73%; Gr.8: 58%)  Chronic truancy (twice a month or more) (Gr.7:10%; Gr.8: 11%)  Caring Adult Relationships (Gr.7: 55%; Gr.8: 51%)  High Expectations (Gr.7: 66%; Gr.8: 61%)  Meaningful Participation (Gr.7: 72%; Gr.8: 70%)  Facilities upkeep (Gr.7: 55%; Gr.8: 43%) School Safety & Substance Use  School perceived as very safe or safe (Gr.7: 74%; Gr.8: 64%)  Experienced any harassment or bullying (Gr.7: 21%; Gr.8: 18%)  Had mean rumors or lies spread about you (Gr.7: 27%; Gr.8: 32%)  Been afraid of being beaten up (Gr.7: 27%; Gr.8: 19%)  Been in a physical fight (Gr.7:13%; Gr.8: 13%)  Seen a weapon on campus (Gr.7: 7%; Gr.8: 11%)  Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school ever (Gr.7: 1%; Gr.8: 3%) Mental and Physical Health  Current alcohol or drug use (Gr.7: 1%; Gr.8: 3%)  Current binge drinking (Gr.7: 1%; Gr.8: 3%)  Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times (Gr.7: 1%; Gr.8: 4%)  Current cigarette smoking (Gr.7: 1%; Gr.8: 2%)  Current electronic cigarette use (Gr.7: 1%; Gr.8: 4%)  Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness (Gr.7: 29%; Gr. 8: 30%)  Summary of 2018-19 Status Average Level (Points): 4.3 Status in Meeting the Local Performance Indicator for Priority 6: Met|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647336061584|Gaspar De Portola Charter Middle|6|Portola administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 6th-8th graders.  The participation rate was 87%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the % of the students indicating Agree/Strongly Agree:  I am happy to be at this school. 67% I feel close to people at this school. 71% I feel like I am a part of this school. 58% I feel accepted for who I am at this school. 67% Overall connectedness.  55% Overall safety. 63%|2019-10-28||Met|2019
33103300128777|Gateway College and Career Academy|6|GCCA administers the Youth Truth Student Survey on a bi-annual basis. Youth Truth is a national organization founded through a collaboration between the Center for Effective Philanthropy and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2008. "Youth Truth is based on the simple but powerful premise that when you get timely feedback from those you're trying to serve, and really listen to that feedback to make changes, you get better." Because new students enter the school throughout the year, it has been our practice to administer the survey in December and May of every year in an effort to capture as many student responses as possible. GCCA has been utilizing the survey since December of 2015 and breaks out the results based on GCCA program status, self-reported grades, gender, free/reduced price meal eligibility, and race/ethnicity.  Over the past three years, students at GCCA have been surveyed about their perceptions of their school in terms of Student Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships with Teachers, Relationships with Peers, School Culture, College and Career Readiness, and Academic Support Services. In addition, students provide feedback in regards to Student Voice and Leadership, Emotional and Mental Health, and Student Motivation. On an absolute basis, GCCA students have consistently provided the highest ratings on Academic Rigor and Relationships with Teachers, while the lowest rated areas have been Relationships with Peers and College and Career Readiness. To put student feedback into context, the Youth Truth report compares GCCA students' ratings to the ratings from students at hundreds of other high schools across the country. On a relative basis, GCCA students gave more favorable feedback on: Student Engagement- 86th percentile Relationships with Teachers- 87th percentile Relationships with Peers- 87th percentile School Culture- 85th percentile College and Career Readiness- 91st percentile  The Youth Truth Student Survey results have been incorporated into the GCCA LCAP and are being tracked and reported on as part of that process. Survey results are included in the LCAP metrics and reported to stakeholders in open meetings annually. As part of the LCAP, the survey results are utilized by school staff and faculty to plan for continuous improvement of student outcomes.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
38684783830437|Gateway High|6|As required, at Gateway High School we conduct a school climate survey at least every other year.  We are reporting data from 2018.  At Gateway High School we administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 9-12.  We reviewed the results as a whole and also with particular attention paid to questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  We disaggregated our data to look at relevant subgroups including ethnicity/race, grade levels, and gender.  Though there were differences among these groups on certain questions, we found no discernable trends across multiple questions or subjects.  We are pleased to report the following results of the survey: • Across all students at Gateway High School, 92% responded that they feel connected to school, with 55% reporting feeling highly connected and 37% reporting feeling connected. • Across all students at Gateway High School, 80% responded that they feel like their teachers care about them, with 40% reporting that this statement is very true and 40% reporting that the statement is true. • Across all students at Gateway High School, 91% responded that they feel safe in my school.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
34674470128124|Gateway International|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated an outstanding school culture and environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive culture where collaboration is valued and Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
38684780123265|Gateway Middle|6|As required, at Gateway Middle School we conduct a school climate survey at least every other year.  We are reporting data from 2018.  At Gateway Middle School we administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 6-8 and we also administered a local survey to gauge school climate.  We reviewed the results as a whole and also with particular attention paid to questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  We disaggregated our data to look at relevant subgroups including ethnicity/race, grade levels, and gender.  Though there were differences among these groups on certain questions, we found no discernable trends across multiple questions or subjects.  We are pleased to report the following results of the survey:  • Across all students at Gateway Middle School, the vast majority responded that “There is a teacher who really cares about me at my school;” only 8% of students disagreed with that statement. • Across all students at Gateway Middle School, the vast majority responded “I feel part of the school;” 12% disagreed with that statement. • Across all students at Gateway Middle School, the vast majority of students responded that “Teachers treat students fairly at my school;” 13% disagreed with that statement. • Across all students at Gateway Middle School, the vast majority responded “I feel safe at my school;” 11% disagreed with that statement.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
49402460128157|Gateway to College Academy|6|The local climate surveys used included the Gateway to College National Network Student Satisfaction Survey and a homegrown survey developed by teachers to assess whether students feel respected, valued, experience a sense of "safe space" and general atmosphere at Gateway to College Academy. Key learnings from the survey included: specific physical spaces where students feel less safe (Study Lounge); strategies and tools that teachers can use to develop a supportive, challenging, productive, and comfortable environment (differentiated seating, "treating students like adults"); peer-to-peer behaviors that are occurring and making students feel unwelcome (homophobic talk, marijuana use). These results reveal areas of strength such as caring and engaging teachers, as well as challenges such as maladaptive peer-to-peer norms. After survey results were compiled, analyzed, and discussed, the GtC team restructured the use of the Study Lounge so that students are now required to earn their pass to occupy the space during class hours. We have already seen results in that there are less students hanging out in this space and consequently students are staying in classrooms, learning more, and their grades are increasing.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
45752670000000|Gateway Unified|6|Gateway Unified School District administers a local school climate survey to students in grades 4-12 in the Spring of 2018. Survey questions were grouped according to school safety and connectedness. The results were grouped by students in grades 4-8 and grades 9-12. Over 85% of the students that took the survey in grades 4-8 answered neutral/agree/ or strongly agree: -- to feeling they belong at the school; -- to feeling they are safe at school; -- they felt a school adult cares about them; -- that students at the school are friendly to one another Only 80% answered neutral/agree/ or strongly agree that students treat other students with respect.  Over 94% of the students that took the survey in grades 9-12 answered neutral/agree/ or strongly agree: -- to feeling they belong at the school; -- to feeling they are safe at school; -- that they felt a school adult cares about them; Only 90% answered neutral/agree/ or strongly agree that students at the school are friendly to one another and that students treat other students with respect. These numbers are consistent with the 2017 school year data. Approximately 32% of students in grades 4-12 completed the survey. This is the same percentage of students that took the test the previous year. The district had set a goal for a 10% increase of the number of students completing the survey. The district has asked site leadership teams to review scheduling for students to complete the survey this year and increase the number of student responses. Each site leadership team will also target the areas of student friendliness and respect as a goal to increase the percentage of neutral and positive responses.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
47703180000000|Gazelle Union Elementary|6|Based on the Healthy Kids Survey from 2018, 24% of 7th grade students in Siskiyou County reported they felt connectedness to their school. Because Gazelle is so small, a site report of the CHKS was not generated.   Based on the Healthy Kids Survey from 2018, 70% of 7th grade students in Siskiyou County reported they felt safe at school. Because Gazelle is so small, a site report of the CHKS was not generated.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
15634870000000|General Shafter Elementary|6|According to surveys parents, students and staff feel safe at school. There were a couple concerns about open areas where possible visitors could walk onto the campus. Those concerns were dealt this by adding small fences to close off the areas of concern. Overall safety is a priority for our campus and we will strive to make sure a members of our community feel safe on our site.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647336061477|George Ellery Hale Charter Academy|6|Hale Charter Academy uses the LAUSD provided School Experience Survey to measure our stakeholders’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Our LCAP goals were to lower our suspension rates, maintain a 0 expulsion rate, and to increase our percentage of stake holders that feel our campus is safe. Our suspension rates dropped to .2% in the 2018-19 school year and we maintained a 0% expulsion rate.  The following are the results of the survey that pertain to school climate.  • The school’s student participation rate was 83%. The percentage of students that feel that Hale Charter Academy is safe is 70%. • Although the survey has some differences in questions and format in measuring student connectedness, a question selected revealed 68% of students indicated that “I feel a part of my school.” • The percentage rates of students reporting being happy at school were 75%.  • When students were asked if adults treated them with respect, 61% of student replied in the affirmative.  To address our students being happy and feeling a part of the school, we will continue to expand our students’ voice and participation in decisions through leadership. In addition, we will continue to build our peer mentoring program called Where Everyone Belongs (WEB). The purpose of this program is to ensure that the transition of our six grade students is happy and comfortable. To help in the area of students feeling that they are being treated with respect, our teachers have received professional development on Restorative Justice, empathy and building student resiliency. Our Safety and Discipline committee works with our stakeholders to provide our students with the resources that help them feel safe and secure on campus. Working within the Restorative Justice model we continue to provide our students with education and interventions that will help to create a more kind and respectful school environment. We not only provide support for our students in their educational development, but also in their social emotional development.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
34674390101899|George Washington Carver School of Arts and Science|6||||Not Met|2019
33670586031959|George Washington Charter|6|Washington Charter School administered Panorama Education Survey to staff, parents, 3rd-5th grade students (pre and post) and interested community members. The results of the survey are referenced in the LCAP along with plans of action. One example is that an overwhelming majority of our students feel safe at school and do not report bullying as a concern, however, there are students who feel bullying takes place. Data from the surveys has been shared with the Washington Charter School Governing Board and other interested parties. Students feel connected to the school and shared that there is someone on staff who they feel comfortable speaking with if the need were to arise.  In most of the surveyed areas (sense of belongingness, self management, social awareness, self-efficacy, and growth mindset) 3rd-5th grade students responses placed the school in the 80th-99th percentile.). The one area that was in the 40th-59th percentile nationally was climate of support for academic learning.There are 5 questions that comprise this category. Each question had a more positive result from the first administration. That said we will continue to analyze the data.This year we are redoubling our efforts on building healthy relationships.|2019-09-25|Washington Charter School is focused on school climate and a growth mindset. There is a new student recognition program for the 2019-20 school year. We are recognizing contributions of our Shining Stars. The emphasis is on character traits and not academics. From the first day of school we have redoubled our efforts on building positive relationships in and out of the classroom. I feel this is an area in which we excel as a school but there is always room for improvement.|Met|2019
52715480000000|Gerber Union Elementary|6|Gerber Elementary School administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 7th graders every other year. Our last reporting year was during the 17-18 school year. Results from the CHKS are reported to the local school board and are shared with advisory committees. According to the 2017-2018 CHKS report, 33% of students in the seventh grade reported they felt a high level of connectedness to the school, 40% reported a moderate level and only 28% reported a low level of connectedness. In regards to school safety, 55% of students reported that they felt safe or very safe at school, 10% of students reported that they felt neither safe nor unsafe and 35% percent perceived that they were not safe. Another noteworthy statistic is that 59% of students felt that they had a caring adult relationship at school. Findings from the CHKS will be used to help guide local decisions for LCAP goals and spending priorities.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
49707060000000|Geyserville Unified|6|DATA: School Safety: During 2018-2019 school year, 80% of students feel that school is safe (compared to 82% in the 2017-2018 school year). School Connectedness: for Geyserville Elementary the percent of students who agree with the following school connectedness statements on the 17-18 California Healthy Kids Survey are: There are adults at school think I will be successful: 95%, There is an adult who I can trust and go to for help: 90%, I am excited about learning: 88%. For GNTA the survey is slightly different in that New Tech Network provides us with a survey to conduct and they determine the “school connectedness” percentage. For 2017-2018 this percentage was 83%.  In 2016-2017 this percentage was 75%. The range for New Tech Schools are 59% to 100% so we are doing great for this area. 68% of GNTA students rate their experience at the school as positive. MEANING: The disaggregate results of the survey and other data collected reveals that we could be doing more to help improve the feeling of school safety and school connectedness in our district.  USE: We will continue our LCAP goal 1:  Provide a safe and secure school environments, specifically ensure Safe School Culture: Develop safe school culture by providing 1) Restorative Practices program and 2) Safe Schools Ambassadors program and 3) hiring a Safety Plan Coordinator to help improve school safety and school connectedness.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
43694840123760|Gilroy Prep (a Navigator School)|6|GPS measures school climate through the Panorama SEL Student survey.  It is administered three times per year for all students grades 3-8 with between 90 and 100% participation rates.  The main focus areas are students' social awareness (understanding and responding to the feelings of others), grit (the ability to set and achieve goals), self efficacy (students belief in their academic achievement), and emotional regulation (how well they can manage their own emotions). Based on the initial results in the Fall of 2018, the Educational Leadership Team (ELT) decided to focus on the self efficacy and emotional regulation of the 3rd - 5th grades, with special attention paid to the discrepancies in the EL / EO / RFEP populations.   The action plan included implementing weekly community meetings in each classroom using the curriculum Paths which focuses on emotional awareness in oneself and others, and tools for managing goals and feelings.  The meetings were monitored by administrators with ongoing training provided to all staff.   By the spring, the ELT was able to note an 5% increase in 3rd - 5th grade self efficacy and 3% increase in 3rd - 5th grade Emotional Regulation.  Most notably, in the subgroup of EL students, there was a significant decrease in discrepancy between EL's, EO's, and RFEP students.  Beginning the year, the EO students were scoring significantly higher than EL students in the area of self efficacy, by approximately 7%. By the spring, all subgroups had increased, and the discrepancy was reduced to less than 2% between all subgroups.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
43694840000000|Gilroy Unified|6|District results are an average of grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 results.  The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered every two years.  The results of the California Healthy Kids Survey for Gilroy Unified showed the following in the 2017-18 survey:               71% of students report a high level of expectations (Very much/Pretty much true)               57% of students reported a high level of school connectedness  (Agree/Strongly agree)                                 Approximately 30% of secondary students responded “neither agree nor disagree”               60% of students reported a high level of caring adult relationships (Very much/Pretty much true)                                  70% at elementary, 56% at secondary, 67% at MMHS              58% of students feel safe/very safe at school                                  78% at elementary                                  51% at secondary--Another 36% of secondary students report feeling “neither safe nor unsafe”  The four areas above have been selected by Gilroy Unified as key indicators related to the GUSD LCAP Goal 3 actions around student success and student engagement.  The survey results support the district’s continued focus on these areas.  Gilroy Unified will continue to utilize these recent survey results in the annual update of the 2019-20 LCAP and revision of actions for the following year.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647330133710|Girls Athletic Leadership School Los Angeles|6|In the 2018-19 school year, GALS administered the Caring Common Survey to our parents.  This survey, developed by Harvard School of Education, helps schools better understand the experiences of students, educators, and parents as they relate to: School values, Safety, Bullying, discrimination, and harassment, student and adult relationships, rules and expectations.  DATA: The following are key learnings from the survey results: In terms of our highest ranking items: Students believe that teachers encourage them to be respectful of others (85% agree), adults at GALS care about students (84% agree), adults at GALS respect students (80% agree), and there is an adult who can help with personal problems (76% agree).     In terms fo our lowest ranking items: Students help each other even if they're not friends (43% agree), student here respect adults (45% agree) and students here treat each other with respect (50% agree).  MEANING:  One of GALS strengths is the relationship that teachers have with their students.  The data speaks strongly to the quality of teaching staff that we have at GALS.  Our teachers are passionate and take a holistic approach to student development.  In terms of growth, GALS will focus on students respecting one another and teachers more than they do already.   USE:  We have discussed our findings with the teachers at GALS and have come up an action plan.  One part of this plan, is increasing the amount of mental health support that we have available for students.  This will allow us to resolve peer to peer issues in a deeper, more thoughtful way through more mediations, use of restorative circle and one on one coaching conversations.|2019-10-23|GALS offers an extremely positive and supportive environment for girls.  The girls all work out in the morning together which create a strong community and end the workout by saying the GALS pledge together.  The girls take a 55 minute social emotional class daly called the GALS series which teaches them about compassion, self love, personal responsibility, how to handle emotional reactions and more.  The morning movement and the GALS series create the foundation for a positive culture to grow.|Met|2019
20764142030237|Glacier High School Charter|6|Glacier High School’s 2019-20 LCAP speaks to our ongoing commitment ensuring that we are meeting the diverse needs of our student population.  Our LCAP Goal 3 states that we will provide greater guidance, support, and opportunities for students in the areas of college and career readiness.  Our LCAP Goal 4 states that we will provide high quality and effective educational services and products to support student learning, (including necessary and appropriate special education and EL populations), engagement, and school connectedness under the daily guidance of their parent.   The following information contains the results of our Student Survey from the 2018-19 school year.  The feedback from this survey contributed to our 2019-20 LCAP goals and actions.  25 Glacier High School Charter students in grades 9-12 responded to our local school survey on a variety of topics.  The results were as follows:  1)  I receive encouragement from teachers and other school staff.  60% rated Excellent, 20% rated Above Average, 20% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poorly.   2)  The school works with my parent/guardian to help me do my best in school.  44% rated Excellent, 40% rated Above Average, 16% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poorly.   3)  My school is safe, clean, and in good condition.  56% rated Excellent, 28% rated Above Average, 16% rated Satisfactory, and 0% rated Poorly.  4)  My school provides textbooks and learning materials to meet my educational needs.  68% rated Excellent, 24% rated Above Average, 8% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poorly.   5)  I feel my Advising (Charter) Teacher (and other classroom teachers) take the time to discuss my grades, academic successes, or areas for improvement with me and my parent.  44% rated Excellent, 32% rated Above Average, 24% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poorly.   6)  Did you participate in on-site classes?  96% responded YES with 4% responding NO.   7)  Did you feel the on-site classes were engaging and educational?  95.83% responded YES with 4.17% responding NO.   8)  Did you use an online curriculum?  48% responded YES with 52% responding NO.   9)  Did your Advising (Charter) Teacher provide you with enough guidance and support to successfully complete your online course(s)?  75% responded YES with 25% responding SOMEWHAT.  13 students who completed our survey did not respond to this question.   10)  It is Glacier's purpose that all students graduate completing the full A-G (college prep) course requirements.  Are you on track to complete the full A-G course requirements for graduation?  76% responded YES, 16% responded I DON'T KNOW, and 8% responded NO.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19645680000000|Glendale Unified|6|In 2019, students in grades 4-12 participated in the Panorama Social Emotional Survey. This nationally normed survey assists in measuring students’ sense of belonging, safety, social awareness, self-efficacy, emotion regulation, and growth mindset. The district’s greatest area of strength was Growth Mindset for 4th and 5th grade, which scored in the 80th – 99th percentile.  In addition, the District is in the 60th – 79th percentile, or higher, in five of six categories for grades 4 – 5 and in two of six categories for grades 6 – 12. The district’s areas of growth are Emotion Regulation in grades 4 – 5 and Sense of Belonging in grades 6 – 12.  Additionally, students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 participated in the California Healthy Kids survey. These surveys measure students’ perceptions of safety, self-efficacy and school climate and were locally authored to fit the needs of GUSD LCAP monitoring and reporting.  They were chosen because of their connection to the GUSD Positive Behavior, Intervention and Support Initiative (PBIS) and their focus on improving school climate and connectedness across the district as highlighted in LCAP Goal 3-1: Create a positive environment and opportunities for students to connect with their school and community.   The GUSD PBIS program is designed to support schools in developing safe and positive learning environments. GUSD currently includes 30 school sites across four cohort teams, including more than 200 school site administrative and certificated leaders from elementary through high school. Teams participate in ongoing training on program implementation, working collaboratively with the Los Angeles County Office of Education PBIS Leadership Team to improve school climate and student engagement in support of district LCAP goals. Cohort 1 started in 2014-2015 and includes Franklin, Glenoaks, Mann, Jefferson, and Roosevelt. Cohort 2 started in 2015-2016 and includes Balboa, Columbus, Muir, Marshall, and Rosemont. Cohort 3 started in 2016-2017 and includes Dunsmore, Keppel, Mountain Avenue, Valley View, Toll, Wilson, Glendale, Hoover, and the Early Education and Extended Learning Programs (EEELP) Leadership Team. Cohort 4 started last year (2017-2018) and includes Cerritos, Edison, La Crescenta, Lincoln, Monte Vista, Verdugo Woodlands, and R.D. White. Cohort 5 began in 2018-2019 and includes Fremont, Crescenta Valley, Daily, Clark, and Foothill Area Community Transition Services (FACTS). GUSD schools have earned Bronze, Silver and Gold Awards for PBIS implementation.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19645760000000|Glendora Unified|6|As Glendora Unified reviews the 2017-18 California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the School Engagement and Supports summary, student connectedness declined (39%-31%) as students matriculated through the grade spans, in addition to declining since the last administration of CHKS.  There is a decline in reported chronic truancy and an increase in caring adult relationships at the high school level.  In the section, School Safety and Substance Use, the school perceived as very safe or safe was flat 76%-73%, this is a 3% drop from previous CHKS.  Students feeling bullied were slightly higher in middle school with a 13% drop at high school.  In the final summary section, Mental and Physical Health, students reported relatively flat change in binge drinking, cigarette smoking and being drunk or high 7 times or more.  The most significant increase was in experiencing chronic sadness/hopelessness with an increase at the 7th grade level at 27% as well as an in considering suicide from 25%-31%. The survey aligns with what been reported in student groups and district anecdotal records.  Groups reported significant concerns for "friends" struggling with mental health issues, stress, and a lack of support in this area.  Staff reports students feeling more anxious and less able to cope with stressors.  Both student and staff feel hear and have seen changes in the supports from kindness clubs, NAMI,  suicide prevention awareness, increase in counseling resources and mental health supports, and parent education topics.  Some barriers and challenges continue to be fear of being in trouble, not being able to meet expectations, the stigma of needing help and financial resources. Increased counseling support and mental health support/resources have increased at all levels, building levels of acceptance and understanding and parent education to remove stigma of asking for help.  The District continues to contract with a variety of resources, inclusive of CareSolace which offers 24/7 helpline to services for families with the necessary financial resources.  Early intervention is a focus with Kindness Clubs, social groups, mindfulness activities, and lunch buddies at the elementary level.  An increase in clubs, activities, WEB Wednesdays at the middle school building positive inclusive relationships.  At the high school, Link Crew like WEB is building positive relationships, NAMI Club, suicide prevention awareness week, and numerous clubs to build connections with students.  As we include student in the process of reviewing eh programs, our processes become more comprehensive as students provide a unique perspective and insight on current issues.  There continues to be constant reflection, data analysis, and professional development.  GUSD continues to recognize developing a comprehensive program will take time.|2019-10-28|The 2019-20 CHKS survey will be administered in mid-October which will provide us with current data to compare to the previous CHKS survey discussed above and included in the upcoming LCAP process|Met|2019
11101160000000|Glenn County Office of Education|6|All of our classes are on different district campuses throughout the county. Our classrooms participate in all district activities and school climate surveys. This data is held with each of the hosting districts.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19647330114967|Global Education Academy|6|Based on the California Healthy Kids Survey taken during the 2017-18 school year, overall the students feel a connection to the school, are academically motivated, feel that adults at the school care for them and have high expectations, feel safe at school, and are treated with respect. 36% of the fifth graders who took the survey were females, and 64% of the students were males. 95% of the students felt that there were caring adults in school and 100% of them felt that the adults had high-expectations of them. 97% of the students feel that the teachers and other staff members care about them, and 100% of the students say that the adults at school tell them when they do a good job and believe that they can do a good job. 92% of the students feel connected to the school, and 72% are academically motivated to do well in school. 97% of the students are happy to be at our school and feel that they are treated fairly, and 100% of the students feel safe at school. The one area of need we identified based on this survey is students being asked what they want to learn about. 46% of students said that their teachers never ask them about what they want to learn about. This shows us that although they are learning and enjoy being at the school, they do not feel like they have much say in what they get to learn. This is important to know because if teachers ask students what they want to learn about and students are able to provide input, teachers can increase student engagement in the classrooms. We will be addressing this topic during our professional development sessions. We have also addressed the topic of socio-emotional learning during professional development in order to maintain/improve the results from the survey.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
19647330129833|Global Education Academy 2|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey from our school (2017-2018) was very positive. Some of the key results were that 100% of our students felt safe at our school. With Academic Motivation, most of our students (93%) feel they try harder when they get a low grade. Under Positive Staff-Student Relationships and Expectations, our students (97%) said that their teachers and other grownups want them to do their best. In regards to Disciplinary Environment, Fairness, and Respect, most of our students (89%) said teachers and other grown-ups at school treat them with respect. With the School's Response to Bullying, most of the students (94%) said teachers will do something to help if they tell them they have been bullied. Under High Expectations at Home, all our students (100%) said that all parents at home want them to do their best at school. In other data collection methods we find that due to high levels of EL students, we need to continue to focus on English Learners while using differentiation to meet their individual needs. We continue to be a small but strong school that works hard at accepting all students and meeting their academic and social needs. Global Education Academy 2 will continue to work hard to meet the needs of all students and continue to improve our teaching practices through professional development, teacher training and using the best teaching practices.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
54722560135863|Global Learning Charter|6|The CoVitatlity Social-Emotional Health Survey was administered to 4th-7th grade students in the Spring of 2019. One hundred seventy six (176) students completed the survey. The survey uses specific measures to gather data on important constructs/domains, such as: • Believe in Self • Believe in Others • Emotional Competence • Engaged Living • Psychological Distress • School Connectedness • Life Satisfaction DATA: Key learnings from the survey results include: • In the area of school connectedness, the average response was 3.98 on a scale from 1-5 among 4th-6th grade students, and 3.72 among 7th grade students. • In the area of being grateful, the average response among 4th-6th grade students was 3.4. 7th grade students ranked relatively high in the area of being grateful with an average score of 3.87.  • In the area of engaged living, both groups of students ranked themselves lower than the previous categories. Students in grades 4-6 rated themselves as 2.78 on average, and 7th grade students self-assessed themselves at an average response of 3.03  • Both sets of students rated themselves as equally low in the area of persistence. Students in grades 4-6 recorded an average of 3.01 and 7th grade students rated themselves as a 2.31.  MEANING: According to these results, relative areas of strength for our students include: school connectedness and being grateful. The area with the lowest score among these comparisons was persistence, with engaged living recording only a slightly higher average. The table of Strength Indicators identifies what percentage of students falls in the following categories for each item: Strength, Watch, and Follow-up. These data are used to guide follow-up care and programmatic decision-making.   USE: The results of the CoVitality survey provide feedback and insights that can be used to guide decision-making and action towards continuous improvement. The results provide justification to continue many of the practices that we began during our first year of operation. These include: weekly whole-school assemblies, morning meetings at all grade levels, positive and strengths-based discipline, opportunities for student voice and choice, and numerous opportunities for recognition and celebration (e.g., classroom compliments, SHINE tickets, student recognition assemblies). In addition, the school worked with the after-school expanded learning program to offer a socio-emotional learning (SEL) curriculum as part of the after-school program. In addition to continuing these practices for our third year, the school has added the following programs and practices, which are also expected to impact school climate: grade 7/8 electives, a leadership council, short-cycle after-school clubs, sports for grades 5-8, 2.5 days per week with the psychologist, more regular social groups and support services by the Behavior Intervention Technician (BIT).|2019-10-29||Met|2019
30664230131417|GOALS Academy|6|GOALS Academy decided to use two open-ended questions during 2018-2019 to assess all scholars' perceptions of the school, with a particular emphasis on their feelings of connectedness and safety. This approach solicited timely feedback for the development of the LCAP. For the 2019-2020 school year, this qualitative approach will be augmented with the administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey. The two questions were: "What do you like about GOALS Academy?" "What would you like to change about GOALS Academy?" Our younger scholars (Grades TK-1) were asked to draw a picture and add a dictated or written caption, and the older scholars (Grades 2-6) were asked to respond in writing.  Key learnings from the scholars' responses included the following:  *  The scholars frequently expressed enjoying learning and playing with friends.  *  The scholars frequently expressed they liked their teachers, and they felt their teachers cared about them.  *  The scholars frequently expressed they enjoyed the activities offered at the school, including dress-up days, assemblies, performances, PBIS celebrations, and field trips.  *  Some scholars expressed a dislike of homework.  *  Some scholars expressed feeling unsafe around some scholars (especially the younger scholars with the older scholars).  *  Many scholars expressed a dislike of the school meals.  *  Many scholars expressed a desire for a better play space.   An area of strength supported by the scholars' responses are the relationships among the scholars, as well as between the scholars and staff. This is affirming since our strength-based teaching and learning philosophy begins with the importance of establishing positive and respectful relationships among all members of our school community. Also, we have successfully connected our scholars with our school with the highly enriched curriculum and various events. It appears as if they enjoy coming to school.   To address areas of challenge, the following will occur:  *  There will be increased differentiation, individualization, and personalization of homework assignments to increase motivation and engagement. It is important that homework assignments are not too easy or too difficult.  *  There will be an effort to help scholars understand the behaviors of some of their peers with special needs to reduce their trepidation around them. Also, there will be increased supervision during recesses and lunch, especially outside of the restroom doors.  *  Scholars will have opportunities to provide feedback and ideas for school meals with our food vendor. Better 4 You Meals is willing to have our scholars express their viewpoints, which will be taken into consideration.  *  We are seeking a different facility that will offer greater space to increase a sense of safety, as well as additional play space with grass. This may occur for the 2020-2021 school year or the year after.|2019-11-04|Because GOALS Academy is a co-created school of choice, there is a higher level of passion and dedication from the staff and engagement and volunteerism from the parents. We implement a flattened hierarchical organizational structure since we believe each person (i.e., scholars, parents, and staff) has something important to contribute to the school in support of our scholars. For this reason, the Director and Assistant Director are readily available for spontaneous dialogues and meetings, as well as other staff members.   In addition to the power of a co-created school, the strength-based approach to teaching and learning results in a positive and productive school climate for our scholars, parents, and staff. Each person is viewed for his/her strengths rather than areas of challenge. We believe in the following formula: “Interests/Talents Are Transformed into Strengths through Character Development and Mentoring.” By the end of each school year, scholars are able to express their areas of strength.|Met|2019
19647330117978|Goethe International Charter|6|Findings reported: The student survey was administered to 123 grade 4-5 students, a participation rate of 96%. The following are the survey findings:  SURVEY FINDINGS: The student survey results are as follows: • 87% Agree/Strongly Agree, my teacher makes learning in class interesting.  • 92% Agree/Strongly Agree, my teacher encourages me to do my best.  • 81.3% Agree/Strongly Agree my teacher seems excited to teach my class.  • 76.5% Agree/Strongly Agree I am excited to participate in class.  • 91% Agree/Strongly Agree, My teacher is respectful towards me.  • 78.9% Agree/Strongly Agree, If I walked into class upset, my teacher would be concerned.  • 87% Agree/Strongly Agree they would be excited to have their teacher again.  • 75.6% Agree/Strongly Agree feel like they belong in their class  The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the survey to improve and expand its student support services, communication, and support a positive school climate.  In addition, the administrative team will assess and review an effective survey tool to administer in Spring 2020 as part of the LCAP process, to measure school connectedness and school climate.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
09618790000000|Gold Oak Union Elementary|6|The Gold Oak Union School District annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to all students in grades 5-8. The results of the survey are shared with the Gold Oak Union School District Board of Trustees and the LCAP Parent Advisory Team each year as well as sharing the results with staff.  The district has administered the Healthy Kids Survey to all students in grades 5-8 for three years which has allowed the district to see areas of strength and areas of challenge.  An area of strength is with the number of students responding that they feel safe at school and that they are happy to be at school. While 100% of the students are not responding in that manner, the number has increased over the last three years and the goal is to continue the work to build more inclusive schools where kids feel comfortable and where they belong. An area of challenge is the decrease in motivation to learn in some of the grade levels as demonstrated by the survey results. This is an area of focus in the LCAP and teachers are working on student engagement as a result.  While the district has seen survey results indicating that the number of students being bullied has decreased, a challenge is the number of students reporting on the survey that students do not try to stop bullying when they see it happening. This will be an area of focus. An area the district focused on in the 2017-2018 year was supporting students feeling sad. The results of the survey in 2017-2018 indicated that a growing number of students reported that they felt “sad or hopeless almost every day for two or more weeks.” As a result of this data, the district made counseling a priority in the LCAP.  In the 2018-2019 school year the district hired a school counselor and increased the time for the school psychologist. The number of students on the 2018-2019 Healthy Kids Survey who responded that they felt sad or hopeless decreased and the district hopes to see that trend continue as the counselor continues her work in supporting students in need.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
55724130112276|Gold Rush Charter|6|Gold Rush Charter High School covers grades 9-12 and has both an on-campus and Independent Study program. All students are provided with personalized learning plans to either move ahead, catch up on credits and stay on track, as per their personal goals and needs. Students on-site come to school Mondays through Thursdays and complete their Friday work independently. All students, regardless of which program, can enroll in the on-site electives, electives completed via independent study, or college courses. Students have the opportunity to enroll in college courses and receive both college and high school credits simultaneously. For example, a student who completes an English class at the college will receive 3 college credits towards their associates degree, plus 10 high school credits to count towards their high school transcripts. The school also works to hold college workshops on-site, available to all high school students, which include support for applying to the college and Federal Student Aid, as well as program education to share with students the opportunities the college affords.  Many students who apply to GRCS state that they sought out the program due to not feeling safe at their previous school and dealing with bullying issues. With the high school classes capped at under 17, the school is smaller and student issues are easier to work through and enables students to work through their challenges. The smaller site allows for staff to not only individualize students’ education and provided differentiation to meet their needs, but also provides for a safer environment. In the past 8 years, there have only been two fights on campus, which resulted in all parties being removed from campus. A Social Club was started on campus which helps students work through social challenges, addresses bullying issues in a safe environment, and works to stay ahead of peer-to-peer and student behavior issues.   In the Spring of 2019, Gold Rush Charter School conducted a Healthy Kids Survey. Past surveys show student perceptions of safety, violence, threats, bullying, school involvement, and general welfare are recorded. 99% of all students surveyed stated it was clear that bullying was not allowed and 80% feel bullying training that has been completed at GRCS helps students understand how to treat others fairly. In 2018/2019 survey was completed by students and a Parent survey was conducted school wide. One area of positive responses was that of parent involvement. Parent involvement as a partner with the school 86% Strongly agree 14% agree 100% Responded Their input was welcome 71 % Volunteer at school or school events 100%  Teacher communication very good|2019-10-17|California Healthy Kids Survey My School is usually clean: 91% Agreed while 9% Disagree Safety at school Safe or Very Safe 80%  Harassment: 87% stated no harassment of any kind Weapons At school: Carried Gun 100% Never/ Knife 100/82 Never  0/18% 1 time (upon further research students report accidently had pocket knife in backpack.) Drugs/Alcohol In many areas students were 100% ever.  However, marijuana had a 10% 9 grade and 40% 11 grade tried) This is an area of concern and GRCS is working with TCSO for a Drug Night and our 8 grade will be attending a Drug workshop with Tuolumne County Superintendent of Schools and the Tuolumne County Sheriff Office in October 2019. In the fall of 2018, the Special Education department created “A Social Club” to teach interpersonal skills to special education students as well as regular education students who need help developing their social skills.  The members of this group were hand selected by the Resource Coordinator in concert with the general education teachers.  These students met one period per week in the resource classroom.  The club is led by the Resource Coordinator with assistance from a Speech/Language Pathologist from the County Office of Education.  Initially, there were 12 students who participated in this program with a waiting list.  A few of the topics this group explored were communication skills, relationship building, appropriate behaviors, teens and social media, as well as drug use.|Met|2019
09618870000000|Gold Trail Union Elementary|6|In examining the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) under School Engagement and Supports we see an increase over the previous year in positive responses to School Connectedness, Academic Motivation, Caring Adult Relationships, and High Expectations.  Interestingly, there is a drop in Meaningful Participation from the previous year.  In School Safety, results indicated an increased feeling of a safe school.  Fear of Being Beat Up and Been in a Physical Fight both decreased in percentages.  All substance use scores were very low.  Mental Health scores seemed a little high.  Overall, our district has seen positive strides and we continue to examine areas of concern.  This includes discussing specific scores at our district advisory meetings, discussing with our staff and calling upon our counselor to intervene as appropriate.  We continue to seek ways to incorporate means to improve our scores and have seen scores improve in the elementary grades through a concerted effort to improve school connectedness by holding an increased number of assemblies and activities for these grade levels.  Also, our junior high students and parent teacher organization (PTO) has targeted these middle grade for more inclusive activities.|2019-10-10|While we continue to use the California Healthy Kids Survey for quantifiable data, we always value stakeholder input in regards to school climate issues and concerns.  One area we currently wish to seek an increase of input is from the yard supervisors, who have firsthand knowledge of the campus climate unique to their position.  Currently, we communicate frequently, but have yet to develop a more formal way of gathering data.|Met|2019
47104700117168|Golden Eagle Charter|6|What did stakeholder input guide us to change for next year? Expanded access to homeschool enrichment Continue expanding CTE classes Developing and staffing online math classes Expanding facilities in Yreka More field trips|2019-10-10||Met|2019
04614570000000|Golden Feather Union Elementary|6|Due to the 2018 Camp Fire, the California Healthy Kids Survey was not administered.  However, results from the the "Family Involvement Survey" indicate that  100% of families agree or strongly agree that the school is a friendly environment for students, parents, and families and that the school is a safe place to learn.  100% strongly agree that the school respects all cultures and diversity.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
07100740730614|Golden Gate Community|6|Spring 2019 California Health Kids Key Results: - 80% of students say it is pretty much true or very much true that they have a teacher or some other adult "who listens to me when I have something to say" - 48% of students say it is pretty much true or very true that "at school I do interesting activities" - 72% agree or strongly agree "the teachers at this school treat students fairly" - Tobacco use: 22% have ever smoked a cigarette, 45% have ever used e-cigarettes, 26% currently use e-cigarettes - 49% of students report current marijuana use - 23% report current alcohol or drug use on school property - 89% report that on school property in the last 12 months they have not been made fun of, insulted or called names - 76% report they feel safe or very safe at school  *Takeaways: - Students feel connected and supported by the school staff - Students fell safe at school - Students have a high rate of substance use  * Actions: We added and additional Youth Development Specialist to provide substance use support. We are continuing to grow our restorative practices by providing professional development, coaching and demonstration.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
01611920119248|Golden Oak Montessori of Hayward|6|Each year students at Golden Oak complete a Campus Climate survey focused on experiences as a student. The survey, closely modelling the California Healthy Kids Survey, assesses the student’s academic experience, school experience, and overall “connectedness” and feeling of safety in the school environment.   Results indicate the vast majority of students feel good about attending Golden Oak Montessori with the majority being happy at school (93.2%), proud to belong to GO (97.73%), motivated to learn (100%), feel treated fairly by teachers (93.18%), feel cared about by teachers (100%), and listened to by teachers (93.18%). These results are strong indicators of student connectedness.   The survey also isolated areas for focus including ensuring there are student behavior supports including clear school rules and consequences, ensuring discipline is handled fairly, and continued work to prevent harassment and bullying. To address this area, Golden Oak utilizes Positive Discipline, the Teaching Tolerance Curriculum, and Second Steps curriculum, all of which are designed to give students the skills and practice to be kind, caring, and responsible members of society. Grant-funded workshops from KidPower for parents and students focus on setting boundaries, projecting confidence, and speaking up for safety. Golden Oak Montessori uses Positive Behaviors Interventions and Supports (PBIS) as another tool to ensure clear rules and consistent application of consequences. Golden Oak Montessori is in the third year of membership with the Mosaic Project, a program bringing together children from diverse backgrounds, providing them with essential community building skills, and empowering them to become peacemakers. The school’s School Psychologist provides on-campus counseling and mental health support for our students which is providing very positive results.|2019-10-10|Golden Oak Montessori surveys the parent and guardian community each year and responses indicate families are pleased with their child's experience (90.31%), say their child is happy and enjoys learning at school (90.91%), and parents feel welcome to participate at the school (92.59%).  Feedback also helped identify areas for continued improvement include providing more academic challenge/rigor and promoting academic success for all students; seeking parent input on important decisions; communicating with parents about how students are doing academically and how to help them at home; ensuring students understand the rules, discipline is managed fairly; and continuing to monitor and address instances of harassment and bullying. This feedback was used to develop the strategies outlined in the LCAP and new initiatives developed to better support students, teachers, and families.|Met|2019
10752340000000|Golden Plains Unified|6|In reviewing the data, the one of the metrics which we tend to focus on is: "My teacher cares about me."  In grades 3-5, 79% of students felt that their teachers cared about them.  In contrast, in grades 9-12 only 51% felt that their teachers cared about them.  Another low indicator was if students felt that their teacher(s) had a knowledge of their community and interests outside of school.  This was more indicative in the high school classrooms, with less than 30% of students scoring positively.  From this work, we were able to work with the teachers at the high school in regards to being aware of student perceptions of them as teachers.  The data is also utilized in a quarter cycle of continuous improvement.  This drives leaders to depend on each other and other model programs .   Through the CCI, our high school has made some an effort for all staff to focus on student relationships.  .|2019-10-08||Met|2019
56724705630363|Golden Valley Charter|6|As GVCS students are comfortably and safely educated in their own homes and in the greater community through various vendors selected by parents for their own students, GVCS does not administer a survey on school climate other than the annual Parent Satisfaction Survey, which covers the school climate of a non classroom-based charter school. With a high percentage of satisfaction reported in all areas, including comments received on the survey indicating satisfaction with our school office and office staff, student/parent/teacher library, and our testing sites, we feel confident in indicating that the School Climate Standard has been met.|2019-09-09||Met|2019
34674470132399|Golden Valley Orchard|6|GVCS administers an annual survey that includes school climate questions. The data reflects that parents feel secure in the community and the students feel safe in the learning environment. The school compares this data with suspension and discipline referral numbers. Furthermore, data sets are developed which collate the answers with similar questions asked of parents, students, and staff.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
34674470114983|Golden Valley River|6|GVCS administers an annual survey that includes school climate questions. The data reflects that parents feel secure in the community and the students feel safe in the learning environment. The school compares this data with suspension and discipline referral numbers. Furthermore, data sets are developed which collate the answers with similar questions asked asked of parents, students, and staff.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
31668520138008|Golden Valley Tahoe|6|GVCS administers an annual survey that includes school climate questions. The data reflects that parents feel secure in the community and the students feel safe in the learning environment. The school compares this data with suspension and discipline referral numbers. Furthermore, data sets are developed which collate the answers with similar questions asked of parents, students, and staff.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
20755800000000|Golden Valley Unified|6|Golden Valley Unified School District surveys all students in grades 4 through 12 every year.  The survey is a local survey created several years ago to provide feedback when the funding for the CA Healthy Kids Survey was no longer available.  Key findings:  Only 74.2% of students like coming to school.  88.7% of students felt safe.  While it has improved, this statistic continues to be of concern - only 65.2% of students feel that students treat each other with respect.  GVUSD will continue its focus on character development, and building a positive culture at all school sites.  The climate data is included in goal 3 of our LCAP.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
42691950000000|Goleta Union Elementary|6|Student surveys of second and sixth grade students indicate that students in Goleta Union School District largely view school as a positive place to be.  They like their teachers, they perceive their teachers as believing they can learn, they have friends, and their families support them.  Sixth grade students say that it is clear that bullying is not allowed and that they feel safe at school, however second grade students have identified feeling safe at school as an area of continued growth, relative to other strengths.  Both primary and upper grade students express interest in having increased choice, fun, and challenge in their work.  Additionally, although students express having friends as a strength, both primary and upper grade students identify "friendliness of students" as an area for growth.  Sixth grade students also expressed an interest in additional staff support with student conflicts.  Survey results were shared with stakeholder groups and leadership to support the identification of site needs and supports for improvement.  Staff continue to build social, emotional, and behavioral supports as part of the multi-tiered systems of supports at each school site.  School and district plans continue to support professional development for teachers and staff.  School and district teams also regularly meet to evaluate practices and strategies for improvement based on identified student needs.  Specifically, this year GUSD is collaborating with school psychologists, teachers, and leadership to standardize social, emotional, and behavioral strategies and supports across school sites and communicate these options as part of our multi-tiered system of supports.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37683380119610|Gompers Preparatory Academy|6|At Gompers Preparatory Academy (GPA) the student, parent, teacher and staff  perception of a safe school climate is reflected through the LCAP survey, which is administered annually. The survey was anonymous and completed by all students, parents, teachers, and staff. Per our 2019 LCAP Survey: approximately 82% of participants believe that GPA maintains a positive school climate (student sense of safety and school connectedness and reduced suspensions and expulsions). Approximately 84% believe that students are engaged as evidenced by high graduation rates and low drop-out rates and are provided with additional support, including technology when needed. Approximately 83% believe that GPA gives student access to core subjects that prepare them for high school graduation (i.e. English, math, social science, science, music, visual & performing arts, health, PE, and career/technical education). Approximately 84% of parents believe that GPA communicates with parents and families and involves them in the life of the school community and its decisions. GPA is thrilled to see that not only are students thriving academically, but they feel supported and have a deep sense of belonging both at home and at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
27754730000000|Gonzales Unified|6|The Gonzales Unified School District conducted local surveys for students, parents, and staff.  They were administered at the elementary, middle, and high school.  General themes of needed support that emerged from the meetings were:  positive student-staff relationships need to be prioritized, more understanding and better teaching from instructors, better facilities, increase parent involvement, social emotional counseling, math support for all sites, better communication, more extracurricular activities, more opportunities for sports and field trips, project-based learning, more student individualized support, differentiated learning, after school programs, and the need for more bilingual teachers and bilingual instructional aids.|2019-10-29|Gonzales Unified School District will continue to focus on the support for students in low-income families, students with disabilities, English learners, migrant students, students who are homeless, foster youth, and students with trauma histories; continued focus on the social and emotional well-being of students through investment in Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports and social and emotional support staff at all school sites; investment in parent involvement through more parent engagement activities; continued investment in visual and performing arts, including instrumental music, theatrical performances and art classes; focus on technology; and Focus on safety, clean schools and classrooms.|Met|2019
19645840000000|Gorman Joint|6|Gorman Joint School District conducted their own School Climate Survey during 2018-2019 school year.  86% (6 out of 7) of fifth grade students took the survey at Gorman Elementary School. The survey results indicated that our students feel safe at the school.  83% (5 of 6) of students reported that they felt safe at school all or most of the time. Additionally, the percentage of students who feel high levels of school connectedness has gone up from 70% to 83% in two years. Violence and bullying does not seem to be a significant issue at either elementary school or middle school students (No cyber-bullying – 82%, never or rarely been pushed or hit – 95%). One area for possible improvement might be meaningful school participation in after school programs such as sports, robotics and visual arts.  Additionally, only 75% (9 of 12) of elementary students report high protective factors at school (caring relationships and high expectations). 90% (9 of 10) of seventh graders participated in the survey in 2016/17. 80% (8 of 10) of the students perceive the school as a very safe or safe place. The percentage of students who reported any harassment or bullying has gone down from 42% in 2018 to 37% in 2019.  In 2019 a higher percentage of students reported caring adult relationships, high expectations, and high school connectedness. A few areas of concern include 20% of students reporting feelings of chronic sadness or hopelessness, and only 80% of students reporting high levels of meaningful participation at school.  The Gorman School District survey results indicate that students generally perceive school as a very safe or safe place (75 percent at the elementary level and 90 percent at the middle school level).|2019-11-12|The district will continue training is Aeries and assessments data collection. The district will continue training with Aeries the new information system that allows the district to track suspensions and expulsions but also student visits to the office. This system also allows the district to track attendance rates. Increase Gorman's SART Team improving current attendance practices and develop improvement for attendance.  The district will continue with: • Physical Education support • PBIS implementation and support • Implementation of Visual and Performing Arts and support • Aeries trainings and support|Met|2019
19645841996305|Gorman Learning Center|6|The annual stakeholder survey has seen a two-year decline in agreement with statements concerning the school's effectiveness at delivering a quality learning environment, including issues related to discipline, bullying, and responsiveness to parent communication. While these areas have been under stress, parent attitudes towards school faculty and staff are largely positive. Parents believe school staff are respectful and work to keep students safe. The school has determined that the key drivers of dissatisfaction were real and perceived facilities disrepair and cleanliness issues surrounding the resource center and the fallout from the changes in local area school leadership which occurred within the last year. We expect to see the early signs of improvement in the area of satisfaction with school discipline to grow into a larger shift as changes to policy are sustained. In addition, as GLC  charts its own course as a separate entity from the original GLC, we expect to see the attitudes and priorities of school stakeholders more clearly with two years of perception data to look at.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
36750510137794|Gorman Learning Center San Bernardino/Santa Clarita|6|The annual stakeholder survey has seen a two-year decline in agreement with statements concerning the school's effectiveness at delivering a quality learning environment, including issues related to discipline, bullying, and responsiveness to parent communication. While these areas have been under stress, parent attitudes towards school faculty and staff are largely positive. Parents believe school staff are respectful and work to keep students safe. The school has determined that the key drivers of dissatisfaction were real and perceived facilities disrepair and cleanliness issues surrounding the resource center and the fallout from the changes in local area school leadership which occurred within the last year. We expect to see the early signs of improvement in the area of satisfaction with school discipline to grow into a larger shift as changes to policy are sustained. In addition, as GLC SBSC charts its own course as a separate entity from the original GLC, we expect to see the attitudes and priorities of school stakeholders more clearly with two years of perception data to look at.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19646340128991|Grace Hopper STEM Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19647331933746|Granada Hills Charter|6|Through the implementation of two stakeholder surveys in the 2017-18 year,  which captured fall as well as spring data in order to see growth within one academic year, there was still a need to focus on differentiation and personalization in instruction to ensure the success of students and improving the overall school climate. Steps to address these areas of need are aligned with our focused professional development which will continue to address Standards-Based Grading, Differentiation and the personalization of instruction. Refined common discipline specific benchmarks and the conversations with faculty to continually identify, through multiple internal and external data sources, the students with immediate need for our tiered intervention (academic and behavior) will continue to be key to seeing greater gains within one academic year. This process, in combination with our additional supports during the instructional day (Academic Mentor Program and Instructional Aides) as well as the additional supports provided after school (The Writing and Math Center and our Student Support Groups, Advanced ELD course), as well as the clearly defined steps for identification of the students in need will be the core of our intervention for the student groups identified through the LCFF Evaluation Rubrics as well as our local indicators.  The Stakeholder Satisfaction Survey was developed, implemented and sent out to all stakeholders; parents, students and staff. The survey contained 19 survey items and two open-ended questions. We offered the survey two times during the year. The first was completed in the fall and the second during the spring. An effort was made to capture sentiments and identify areas of need around the designed topics in order to make an impact by addressing targeted areas within the same academic year. By surveying again in the spring, there was an opportunity to see growth. At the height of their responses, parents had a response rate of 22%, students had a response rate of 43% and staff had a response rate of 50%. Based on the varying response rates, survey results were able to show trends in each of the category of responses.  We were able to identify trends in responses in the following areas: Homework, School Climate (connections with students and staff through instructional practice - differentiation), grading practices and assessment.  These areas helped us to facilitate conversations with all stakeholders in order to develop the 2019-20 LCAP goals.    We are currently implementing our 2019-20 Columbia University Teacher's College survey in conjunction with our two-way communication parent bi weekly surveys through the POSSIP platform.  Additionally, we have created a more uniformed way to survey parents in attendance at parent workshops in all areas of the school.|2019-10-07|Increased or Improved Services for 2019-2020 Improved services for Socioeconomically Disadvantaged, English Learners, Foster Youth, Hispanic and African-American will continue to be addressed through our tiered intervention approach which address the need for academic and social/behavior interventions. 1) Professional Development focusing on Standards-Based Grading, Differentiation, and Google Tools for organization (student and staff) addressing homework, “Building Resilient Students” professional development workshop in the fall 0f 2019. 2) Adopted universal instructional strategies that will be implemented in all disciplines which will help target the identified areas of need (CAASPP claims) for intervention in ELA and Math. 3) English Learner Focus: Sheltered courses in English 11 and Algebra I, Geometry and Algebra II and an Advanced ELD course. 4) Double block sections of Algebra I. 5) LINK Crew: Academic Mentor Program will integrate a Freshman “onboarding” program that focuses on social/emotional support and integration into the GHC community. 6) Departments will create and implement common benchmarks and rubrics that consistently measure growth on school identified SBAC skills. 7) Students with Disabilities focus: Structure of resource/skills classes as well as access to alternative course selection will provide more opportunity and intervention for identified students. Performance Indicator Review is attached. 8) Monitoring Homework: Examining purpose of homework|Met|2019
45700030000000|Grant Elementary|6|The district continues to measure the school climate by implementing student surveys in grades 4-8. The survey asks questions that reflect their feelings of safety, connectedness and support. A vast majority of students throughout grades 4-8 feel safe at school. They feel challenged and they are provided ample support by the staff. Students feel connected based largely on the amount of school activities they participate in. Unfortunately, there were students who reported students being physically or emotionally hurt by others. This is an area of focused resources developed in the Local Control Accountability Plan.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
29663326111140|Grass Valley Charter|6|The following is a excerpt (with results) from a survey given to seventh grade students regarding school climate and safety.    Prompt Students Respond to                                             % that Strongly Agree and Mostly Agree At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who:    really cares about me                                                      67% notices when I'm not there                                             66% listens to me when I have something to say                     79% tells me when I do a good job                                     87% always wants me to do my best                                     95% believes that I well be a success                                     81% I feel close to people at school                                     77% I am happy to be at this school                                     77% I feel like I am part of this school                                     69% The teachers at this school treat students fairly             72% I feel safe in my school                                                     81% I try hard to make sure I am good at my schoolwork     85% I am always trying to do better in my schoolwork             77%|2019-06-11|Additionally, a parent survey is conducted each year to measure their thoughts, feelings, and perceptions on student engagement, school climate, and school safety.  Here is data from the 2018/2019 school year.  Approximately 200 parents took part in this survey. 1. There is strong parent involvement and engagement at GVCS.  • 86% state they can be involved in the classroom • 75% state they can be involved in school-wide groups • 92% state they are aware of activities that happen at school • 91% state the school communicates with them effectively  2. Students are supported at GVCS.  • 93% state GVCS supports students' physical well-being • 96% state GVCS supports students' intellectual well-being • 91% state GVCS supports students' social emotional well-being|Met|2019
29663320000000|Grass Valley Elementary|6|The District administers two school climate surveys on an annual basis. The Annual LCAP Parent, Student, and Staff Surveys are administered in February. The District also administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to each 7th grader on an annual basis. The results from both the LCAP Surveys and the California Healthy Kids Survey are reviewed with the Governing Board each year. Key findings of the surveys are also utilized in the development of the annual Local Control Accountability Plan. The percentage of responses to the following questions on the LCAP Student Survey regarding school culture: "I always feel safe at school", Bell Hill Academy: 49% yes, 39% sometimes, Scotten School: 69% yes, 31% sometimes, and Gilmore Middle School: Grades 5 & 6 indicated 51% yes, 42% sometimes and Grades 7 & 8 indicated 32% yes, 48% sometimes. The percentage of responses to the following questions on the LCAP Student Survey regarding school culture: "I have been bullied this year at school", Bell Hill Academy: 15% yes, 68% no, Scotten School: 17% yes, 72% no, and Gilmore Middle School: Grades 5 & 6 indicated 25% yes, 66% no and Grades 7 & 8 indicated 25% yes, 61% no.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
50710840120089|Gratton Charter|6|Gratton School District uses the Healthy Kids survey, administered in seventh grade, to evaluate school climate. School Environment Average Scale Scores are measured in percentages. The following are percentages rated as "Pretty much true" or "Very much true." Total School Supports 73%, Caring Adults in School 86%, High Expectations-Adults in School 98%, Meaningful Participation in School 34%, School Connectedness 90%, Academic Motivation 93% and Parent Involvement in School 90%. In addition, the school has 0% expulsion rate and 0% suspension rate.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
50710840000000|Gratton Elementary|6|Gratton School District uses the Healthy Kids survey, administered in seventh grade, to evaluate school climate. School Environment Average Scale Scores are measured in percentages. The following are percentages rated as "Pretty much true" or "Very much true." Total School Supports 73%, Caring Adults in School 86%, High Expectations-Adults in School 98%, Meaningful Participation in School 34%, School Connectedness 90%, Academic Motivation 93% and Parent Involvement in School 90%. In addition, the school has 0% expulsion rate and 0% suspension rate.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
49707146051742|Gravenstein Elementary|6|Gravenstein:  The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to the 5th graders at Gravenstein Elementary School in March of the 2018/19 school year.  Key data points from the survey indicate a very positive climate: 91% of students reported feeling safe or very safe at school, 85% indicated feeling connected to school, and 85% of students feel that there is at least one caring adult at school.  The CHKS data, combined with other data sources we are looking (California Dashboard, local survey data, local academic assessments) indicate that Gravenstein Elementary has a very strong core program that enjoys a significant amount of parent engagement and support.  The data also tells us that when disaggregating our results, we have student groups (Students with Disability(ies), Socioeconomically Disadvantaged) that are performing below grade level, are absent more often, and experience more school discipline.  To work toward continuous improvement, we will address these students using a Multitiered System of Supports framework and focus on early identification and developing a menu of best practice Tier II targeted interventions.  This framework will be represented in our Board Vision, Mission, Goal, and Activity statements, in our Single School Plans, and in our LCAP plan.  Hillcrest:    The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to the 7th graders at Hillcrest Middle School in March of the 2018/19 school year.  Key data points from the survey indicat|2019-11-14||Met|2019
49707140000000|Gravenstein Union Elementary|6|District: The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to the 5th and 7th  graders in our district in March of the 2018/19 school year.  Key data points from the survey indicate a very positive climate.  5th grade results showed 91% of students reported feeling safe or very safe at school, 85% indicated feeling connected to school, and 85% of students feel that there is at least one caring adult at school.  7th grade results were as follows:  73% of students reported feeling safe or very safe at school, 80% indicated feeling connected to school, and 74% of students feel that there is at least one caring adult at school.  The CHKS data, combined with other data sources we are looking (California Dashboard, local survey data, local academic assessments) indicate that GUSD has a very strong core program that enjoys a significant amount of parent engagement and support.  The data also tells us that when disaggregating our results, we have student groups (Students with Disability(ies), Socioeconomically disadvantaged) that are performing below grade level, are absent more often, and experience more school discipline.  To work toward continuous improvement, we will address these students using a Multitiered System of Supports framework and focus on early identification and developing a menu of best practice Tier II targeted interventions.  This framework will be represented in our Board Vision, Mission, Goal, and Activity statements, in our Single School Plans, and in our LCAP plan|2019-11-14||Met|2019
27660270000000|Graves Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
50105040117457|Great Valley Academy|6|Annually, Great Valley Academy facilitates surveys (including input on areas related to climate) seeking input from students (3-8th grades) and parents.  Following, you will find highlighted areas of responses from both 2019 surveys: Student Survey Data points *I feel safe at Great Valley Academy-82% of students responded often or always *My teacher cares about me-94% of students responded often or always  Parent Survey Data points *My children feel safe at school-97% of parents responded always or most of the time *My children are happy to come to school-96% of parents responded always or most of the time *I feel welcome at Great Valley Academy-95% of parents strongly agree or agree *Great Valley Academy meets/exceeds parent expectations-91%  We analyze annual and comparative data each year, which allows us to monitor and respond to results and trends regarding climate related issues on our campus.|2019-04-29||Met|2019
50712660124768|Great Valley Academy - Salida|6|Annually, Great Valley Academy-Salida facilitates surveys (including input on areas related to climate) seeking input from students (3-8th grades) and parents.  Following, you will find highlighted areas of responses from both 2019 surveys: Student Survey Data points *I feel safe at Great Valley Academy Salida-84% of students responded often or always *I am excited to learn-68% of students responded often or always *My teacher cares about me-85% of students responded often or always  Parent Survey Data points *My children feel safe at school-99% of parents responded always or most of the time *My children are happy to come to school-99% of parents responded always or most of the time *Great Valley Academy Salida creates a safe, loved and learning environment-93% of parents strongly agree or agree *Great Valley Academy Salida meets/exceeds parent expectations-96%  We analyze annual and comparative data each year, which allows us to monitor and respond to results and trends regarding climate related issues on our campus.|2019-04-29||Met|2019
37681556117303|Greater San Diego Academy|6|GSDA administers a student survey for students in grades 7-12 at least every other year.  Based on the student survey administered in 17-18, students feel safe, supported, and cared for at GSDA with an overall school ranking of an A (96%).  Suggestions for improvement that were provided by students include additional opportunities for art courses and science labs.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
12628510000000|Green Point Elementary|6|The spring survey administered to all Green Point Elementary parents resulted in a return of 75% of parent responses. Of the parent responses returned, 90% of them indicated that they had opportunities to provide input into the school decision-making opportunities; however, the actual turn-out to open houses, board meetings and planning sessions was not reflective of the survey. In actuality, less than 10% of parents participated. Promoting parental participation in school programs is a top priority at Green Point Elementary. 20% of our parents volunteer at the school in one capacity or another. Attendance at parent/teacher conferences exceeds 80%, and 100% of the parents with students who have IEPs attend annual meetings and participate in the development of their child's educational plan. Our survey did not directly address the promotion of parental/guardian participation in programs in the 2018 spring survey, but will be directly addressed in the 2019 spring parent survey. The district chose to develop its own survey for several reasons; we are a very small, one-school, rural district with a close-knit parent/community group, and, we wanted a survey that directly reflected out goals and activities as outlined in the Local Control Accountability Plan.  Green Point School administers student and parent surveys to all in every grade level every spring. Student return on the surveys was 100% Parent return was 75%. In the area of school climate 95% of the students felt close to people at school; 5% did not. 84% of the students indicated they were happy at school; 16% were not. 84% of the students felt like part of the school; 16% did not. 100% of the students indicated that the teachers treated them fairly.82% of students felt safe at school; 4% did not, and 14% were undecided. From the results of the student surveys the district will provide staff with appropriate professional development to help foster a more positive feeling in students about their connectivity and their safety. We will continue to pursue working with the County Office of Education to facilitate counseling services. 100% of the parents who participated in the spring indicated that the teachers communicated with them about what the students were expected to learn in class, and that the staff took parent concerns seriously. 90% of the parents who returned their surveys felt welcome to participate in the school. From these results the district has committed to make a more concerted effort to gain a higher return on parent surveys. The goal for the coming year is to increase the return of parent surveys to 100% of the total number of parents. The district will also increase its efforts to encourage parents to attend and participate in study sessions and workshops concerned with analyzing goals and actions as outlined in the LCAP, and working together with the district to plan revisions and needed changes to reach our goals.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
15635030000000|Greenfield Union|6|In 2018-19, the Greenfield Union School District administered the annual Student District Needs Assessment Survey to 4674  students in grades 4th through 8th. Results from the 2018-19 Student District Needs Assessment for grades 4th through 8th show that: 65.7% of our students report they look forward to coming to school each day. 95.5% of our students report teachers keep them informed of their academic progress. 68.0% of our students feel safe at school. *Results taken from the district’s 2018-19 Student Needs Assessment Survey   One of the Greenfield Union School District’s goals is to ensure students feel safe and connected at school.  According to the results of the 2018-19 Needs Assessment Survey,  65.7 % of 4th  through 8th grade students look forward to coming to school each day.  This is a 0.2 % decrease from the 2017-18 survey results.  The results of the 2018-19 survey show that  68.0% of our 4th-8th grade students feel safe at school. This is a  0.9% increase from the 2017-18 survey results.  Therefore, we will continue to monitor this goal through the Student District Needs Assessment Survey and revisit our existing programs. To ensure student safety, the district will continue the maintenance of additional security guards at the middle schools and additional noon aid supervision at all schools.  In an effort to increase school connectedness and safety, the district will continue the Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports Program and install security cameras at all school sites as stated in our LCAP actions 3.2 and 3.14.  Additionally, the Administrator of Student Supports will continue monitor the PBIS program and school safety as stated in our LCAP action 3.16.|2019-10-09|Criteria Met|Met|2019
27660350000000|Greenfield Union Elementary|6|Our School Climate data for local priority six is collected every other school year via the California Healthy Kids Survey. The last sample collected was derived from our California Healthy Kids Survey results in grades 5 and 7 during the 2017-18 school year. 61% of our 5th graders and 83% of our 7th graders participated during the 2017-18 sample. It was discovered that 81% of our students felt as though they were being treated with respect and 51% of our sampled students felt as though they were treated fairly. On average, 54% of our students felt safe at school, 29% had been hit or pushed, and 40% had been the center of mean rumors. These numbers are too high for our district. We will be reviewing our Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (PBIS) implementation at both site and district level to ensure we demonstrate a high reduction in bullying and an increase in safety and fairness at all of our school sites. This information will continue to be shared on a quarterly basis and was last shared on October 10, 2019 at a School Board meeting.|2019-10-10|This local indicator data and narrative was presented to our local school board and community in June 2019, October 2019 and will again in January 2019.|Met|2019
47703260000000|Grenada Elementary|6|The district participated in the CA Kids' Healthy Survey (CHKS) in the Spring of 2018. This survey is administered in Siskiyou County every other year. The district uses passive participation methods in order to obtain the greatest sample size. In Spring of 2018 the students in grades 5 and 7 were surveyed across the district. Results indicate that students feel positive in their level of contentedness and safety. Our district’s focus last year was to ensure students feel safe and connected at school. Additionally, we review our local surveys each year. We surveyed all staff and all students for ideas as to how to increase student engagement with school and finding ways to increase students' feelings of safety. The recent data indicate that the majority of GESD students surveyed feel positive about school and their school environment.  In the GESD CHKS and Site Developed Climate and Culture Student Survey, our school has shown growth in the areas of Climate of Support for Academic Areas (High expectations 100%); Safety (Safe at School 94%); Safety, and Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness 100%) (Caring adult 94%). Our areas of growth are surrounding teachers working with and for their students, students knowing expectations, and feeling a sense of belonging and connectedness with other students. While our survey results were overwhelmingly positive with “Strongly Agree” or “Very Much True” in each category,  we identified our largest area for growth as Academic Motivation: Interesting School Work (24% diasagree), and Meaningful Participation: Deciding class activities/rules (35 % Not True), school activities and rules (59% Not True) and making a difference (29% Not True) amd “Meaningful Participation at School (41% Low). Due to this, we are launching a schoolwide Restorative Practices program and Universal Design for Learning (UDL). We researched restorative practices last year and we had 98% of staff attend a Restorative Practices training in August 2019 in the use of community circles, and we will continue to enrich and train our staff on these practices. We have begun implementing restorative conversations as well. We also have trained all of our staff surrounding PBIS strategies, and are preparing for a PBIS reboot. Administration is also aligning our progressive discipline model with our tiered interventions.  We are currently in the initial phase of implementing UDL including staff training and coaching.  The goal of all of these systems is to increase meaningful participation for students in school activities and rules and increase student engagement in classes.  After a review of our Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) metrics and district support systems, GESD identified a continued need for improved access to learning opportunities for students with social/emotional needs and those who are at risk. This requires that we evaluate and modify our structured, data-driven plan that integrates all aspects of student achievement.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
04755070000000|Gridley Unified|6|The Spring 2019 administration of the Healthy Kids Survey revealed patterns in student perceptions of their schools, their safety, and their health that change as the students age through elementary, middle, and high schools. As they age, students feel less connected to their schools, less safe at schools, feel that their parents are less connected, feel that the schools lessen anti-bullying messaging, and that the schools are less supportive of ethnic differences. The only area to rise as the students aged was unfortunately in self-reported use of alcohol or drugs, from 3% at the elementary level to 39% at the high school level. This basic pattern has held relatively steady over the past few years of data at each grade level. This year, ethnic data were examined as well and it was found that although White students generally reported the most positive and safest feelings over their Hispanic/Latino counterparts, when surveyed as to whether or not they has personally experienced issues of safety at school, the numbers were very comparable at no more than 1-2 percentage points different. This is interpreted to indicate that although the students FEEL differently about school safety and belonging. the empirical data do not suggest that there is disparity in student safety along lines of ethnicity. The district takeaway from this is that additional data need to be gathered to look at the underlying reasons for those disparate feelings of safety, including the data around substance use which showed students of color as high as five times more likely to use substances than their white peers. Some of this is already being addressed this current year through a grant-funded school resource deputy, investment in anti-vaping campaigns and detectors at the secondary level, and awareness of the need to dialog with students about safety and perceptions of their schools.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
15101570124040|Grimmway Academy|6|Grimmway Academy participates in a comprehensive, researched-based SEL and Culture survey conducted through TransformEd.  Through this tool, the school has been able to gauge both student and staff perceptions of the overall school climate. The students reported high levels of curiosity and a strong growth mindset. In the SED subgroup, students reported higher levels of connecdedness to the school community.   From the previous year, there was a decline in students reporting feeling safe at school. Most notably, in the 5th-grade students. In the ELL subgroup, students reported lower levels of self-efficacy. To address these areas the school implemented a new social-emotional curriculum for the 6th-grade class, Tribes. All teachers were trained and the curriculum is taught daily in the homeroom class. To address the self-efficacy concerns for ELLs a mentoring and leadership club was created.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
15635780135186|Grimmway Academy Shafter|6||||Not Met|2019
40104050101725|Grizzly ChalleNGe Charter|6|Key findings from student surveys showed a very strong student response to feelings of safety and belongingness. Over 95% of students report strongly feeling safe at the school. Further, students responses state that they strongly feel that their teachers treat them with respect, challenge them to try their best, and show a strong concern for them. One area that student feedback indicates a less strong favorability has to do with school rules. Approximately 8% of our students reported that they perceived school rules as unfair or enforced inconsistently. We have had 4 workshops in the past year on classroom management to clarify and emphasize awareness on discipline policies|2019-06-10||Met|2019
37770990136077|Grossmont Secondary|6|GSS administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of GSS’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of GSS’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, GSS has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, GSS exceeded this metric. 99% of students reported that they felt safe at GSS and 98% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at GSS. Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 GSS’s suspension rates are 0% and expulsion rates are 0%. These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37681300000000|Grossmont Union High|6|The Grossmont Union High School District (GUHSD) uses the California Healthy Kids Survey to measure and monitor school climate on an annual basis in grades 9 and 11. In addition to reviewing survey responses, the District also reviews the District School Climate Index (SCI) and the associated school-specific data. Since 2015, the District has made significant gains in improving its SCI score (up by 37 points since 2015) and in improving its SCI State Percentile (up by 29 points since 2015) and Similar Schools Percentile (up by 38 points since 2015).  From the School Climate Index report, we’d increased +10 points on Overall Supports and Engagement since 2015 and up +52 points in Overall Low Violence and Substance Abuse. However, it is worrisome that 32 percent of students have experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness according to the Healthy Kids Survey.  Over the past several years, the District has focused multiple initiatives on increasing connectedness, engagement, and promoting safety, and addressing behavioral health for all students. The District has expanded student access to therapists and behavioral interventions through a program called Mending Matters and has developed an integrated and comprehensive Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) (see https://www.cde.ca.gov/ci/cr/ri/mtsscomprti2.asp for details).|2019-10-10||Met|2019
36678433630928|Grove|6|1. In February and March of 2019 Grove conducted a self-created survey for parents and guardians as well as students. The survey results showed that the stakeholders of Grove were overall satisfied, with 90% or more stating that Grove provides students with a safe and respectful environment for students, where they are challenged academically.   A small number reported incidents of  bullying, with the vast majority saying bullying and violence was not a problem at the Grove School. The students surveyed indicated that “meanness” between students was a problem.   A high number of middle and high school students indicated that vandalism was a problem, but both groups also indicated that there was a high level of respect shown to students, and that students respected the school.  The new math curriculum received mixed reviews, with the majority of respondents marking neutral or N/A.  Student involvement in extracurricular activities showed 60% of middle school students participating in clubs and 45% in sports. High school responses show an equally large involvement with 83% indicated they were in clubs and 37% in sports.    2.  The survey results indicate that stakeholders are in support of the school and feel that its practices and policies are supporting students and creating a positive learning environment.  The three groups surveyed indicated that the most Important topics for the 2019-2020 school year are: train students on how to work in groups, more training for teachers in Montessori philosophy, additional computer instruction for students, and improvements on the middle school campus.   3. Grove will continue working on bullying and harassment prevention through its diversity committee and mentoring program and has included group work lessons in key experiences.  Grove also introduced a new 7th and 8th grade elective on technology and has plans to expand those classes to all grades. The Grove school has hired an operations manager who has taken on  multiple facilities projects on the middle school campus.  The indication that “meanness” between students is a problem has led administration to move quickly on microaggressions and train staff on how to respond to instances of unkind behavior between students.|2019-11-04|During the 2018-2019 school year the Grove High School experienced multiple of incidents of vandalism in the boys bathroom, but no reported incidents of vandalism on the outside of school buildings or school grounds.|Met|2019
19647331931864|Grover Cleveland Charter High|6|Annually, Cleveland Charter High School administers Los Angeles Unified School District’s School Experience Survey (SES) to students in all four grade levels and students' parents, and to teachers and staff members that provides a valid measure of, among other measures, perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Parents take the survey in a paper-pencil version, while students, staff and teachers take the survey online. In November 2018, 74% of the students took the survey, 54% of the parents, and 100% of the staff and teachers. In the School Climate content area there were three categories of questions for the students including 28 questions on both Connectedness (9 survey questions) and Safety (5 survey questions). Parent and staff/teacher surveys also included questions regarding school climate in general and safety specifically.  The survey was taken by 2,227 students in the fall of 2018. The overall student results who agreed or strongly agreed with the five questions regarding safety was 56%. The specific question “I feel safe in this school” received a 50% agreement or strong agreement.  There were considerable differences in responses to “I feel safe in this school” between student groups. The group that responded most favorably to the question were - students in the 9th grade (at 61%). The group that responded least favorably were students in the 11th grade (at 44%). All the other groups (female and male students, 10th-12th grade students, English Learners, foster youth, socioeconomically disadvantaged, students with disabilities, Asian, African American, Hispanic, and White students) responses fell within a narrow range of 46% and 54%.  To increased student safety, Cleveland students have been a part of assemblies about bullying and vaping. Additionally, the faculty and staff have received "active shooter" training from the Los Angeles Police Department. Within the past year, the school has increased the number of security personnel and security cameras. Other personnel available to work with students who feel unsafe are two school psychologists, a psychological social worker, a Pupil Services and Attendance counselor, ten academic/guidance counselors, and eight class-size reduction teachers, and more than one hundred classroom teachers.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
34674390135343|Growth Public|6|Our survey results were very informative for our strengths and areas of growth. The key strengths are as follows:   Culture and Climate 95% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “the school culture is very positive”.  98% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “their child is deeply known”.  94% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “their child enjoys going to school.” Student Learning 97% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “GPS sets high standards for academic success”. 97% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “GPS Teachers and Leadership Team create a school environment that helps children learn”. 98% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “My child’s teacher is organized and knowledgeable about their subject area”. 95% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “My child's teacher(s) communicates with me about his/her academic progress” 95% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “My child’s teacher(s) meets his/her individual needs”. 94% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “The school offers quality enrichment programs”.  Areas of improvement are as follows: Restorative discipline practices at GPS: 71% agree/strongly agree that “I understand the overall approach to discipline” 74% agree/ strongly agree that “the overall approach to discipline works for my child” Parent engagement 63% of parents agreed, strongly agreed, or were neutral that “I attend meetings and events hosted by the school.”  We were very pleased to see the results from the family survey. We know we have many areas to improve in as a new school, but in the areas that we think matters the most around academic achievement, we can see that our families appreciate the hard work of our teachers. We also believe that culture and climate drive everything, so we are continuing to move toward excellence in this area, but were pleased to see how we are doing, especially as a new school.   As a result of the feedback from the survey responses, we implemented the appropriate changes to address the concerns, and got even better in the areas that parents were satisfied with. For example, we offered more education and clarity about our restorative justice discipline system. We hired a parent liaison and a culture lead to ensure that we had the time to implement our restorative system effectively. Our parent liaison is available to work with parents and help build the partnership to ensure that our families have a better understanding of how we are carrying out the restorative approach. And, most importantly, they can work as partners with us and their children. We have seen these actions pay off, as our culture is even better, and parents understand our restorative approach much more.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
42692030000000|Guadalupe Union Elementary|6|Our most recent California Healthy Kids Survey demonstrates that 80% of 7th grade students feel safe or very safe at school. 8th grade students report 72% feel safe at school. 68% percent of 5th grade students report high levels of caring relationships at school and 64% of 7th graders feel they are part of the school. We feel this is due to our initial efforts in Restorative Justice Practices implementation and Steps to Respect anti-bullying education. Actions and services in our LCAP, Goal 2, "School environment will be well maintained, sustainable, safe, welcoming and used by the community," call for continued improvement in these percentages.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
37684520124917|Guajome Learning Center|6|We offer the CHKS every other year with the most recent administration being in Fall 2017.  We will administer this again in late Fall 2019. In response to the results of the 2017 survey GLC has addressed areas of growth and continue to nurture its strengths. GLC’s focus on student needs and its safe environment were the most important attributes to students. Overall, students have very positive views of the school in terms of academic rigor, relationships with faculty, and teacher quality. The areas ranked highest by students include: school perceived as very safe or safe, high expectations, and caring adult relationships. One positive indicator is that we had 0 suspensions in the 2018-19 school year, which is a testament to the positive relationships that we build with our students and the safe spaces we have created. One of the clearest areas of growth identified in the survey was in building connection through extracurricular activities and a need for education surrounding tobacco, alcohol and drug use.  We have integrated educational opportunities for our stakeholders including presentations on vaping in order to help people become more aware of its dangers and what to watch out for. Another growth area we have is extracurricular participation by our stakeholders.  In the Fall of 2019 we administered a survey to parents to find out about how they would like to participate more in our school and how they see their student’s participation in the extracurricular opportunities offered.   With access to the Guajome Park Academy’s campus students are able to participate in a number of activities, clubs, sports and theater offerings.  Currently, 20% of students are taking course classes on the GPA campus. A number of these include electives that also provide extracurricular activities, such as orchestra and choir.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37684523730942|Guajome Park Academy Charter|6|We offer the CHKS to our students every other year as a climate survey. It was most recently given in the 2017-18 academic year. We will be completing the CHKS again this year for the 2019-20 academic year.  In our last survey,  we saw 93% of our Middle Schoolers and 89% of our High Schoolers complete the survey. From that survey we see some very positive and encouraging results on the culture and climate of our school. Overall we have seen continued growth in our students' perceptions of the school’s climate as measured by the CHKS over the last five years. In looking at the overall School Climate Index (SCI) in the HS, results have shown an overall growth of 39 points from 2016 to 2018. Within our MS SCI score we saw a growth of over 63. In comparison of similar schools SCI scores in MS showed a growth of 34 points, 29 points below GPA, and HS showed a growth of 28 points 11 points below GPA’s growth. Beyond the overall SCI score growth, subscales scores showed both high marks and growth reflecting a strong culture. Overall scores for Low Violence and Substance Use, showed a HS score of 324, a growth of 74 points. For MS students reflected a score of 295, with a growth of 79. Marks in supports and engagement showed students in both MS and HS feel there are very strong supports in place on campus, and adults at GPA both high expectations and caring relationships.  Other indicators, again reflect a strong and growing culture. In a combined MS/HS population 82% identified that they Try Hard in School. 71% surveyed stated that they feel safe at school, and students reporting bullying dropped 8% since the 2016 survey. In looking closer at school safety and bullying, both MS and HS showed high overall subscores and growth. The MS reported and overall score of 252, an increase of 77 points, in low degrees of bullying and harassment. Similarly our HS students reported an overall score of 320, an increase of 75 points in low degrees of bullying. Looking at low substance use, scores similar results were recorded, with HS reporting a total score of 340, a growth of 63 points, and MS reporting score of 299, a growth of 77 points.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
49707220000000|Guerneville Elementary|6|DATA:School Safety: Using the California Healthy Kids Survey or Local Survey 67% of 5th graders feel safe at school (compared to 81% the previous year) and 77% of 7th graders feel safe at school (compared to 71% the previous year). 93% of TK/K students feel safe at school. School Connectedness: The California Healthy Kids Survey results in 2017-2018 stated that 46% of 5th graders and 42% of 7th graders had a high level of school connectedness. This compares to data from 2015-2016 that stated that 73% of 5th graders and 74% of 7th graders had a high level of school connectedness.  This compares to data from 2013-2014 that stated that 55% of 5th graders and 71% of 7th graders had a high level of school connectedness. New data will be collected during the 2019-2020 school year. The percentage of students who are happy to be at Guerneville School in 2018-2019 was 90% for 5th grade and 94% for 7th grade. In 2017-2018 data this was 100% for elementary and 82% for middle school.    MEANING: Overall, students are very happy to be in the Guerneville School District. Our levels of school connectedness did decrease from 2015-2016 to 2017-2018, however, we have had several natural disasters (floods and fires) that have impacted our community and school transiency. We look forward to analyzing the data from the 2019-2020 Healthy Kids Survey to obtain a better picture of our students' level of school connectedness.  USE: We will continue to implement and evaluate LCAP Goal 5:  Campus Pride & Safety: Provide a safe and secure campus and LCAP Goal 2: Students, Staff and Families are excited and engaged in their learning and leadership.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
49707226051767|Guerneville Elementary (Charter)|6|DATA:School Safety: Using the California Healthy Kids Survey or Local Survey 67% of 5th graders feel safe at school (compared to 81% the previous year) and 77% of 7th graders feel safe at school (compared to 71% the previous year). 93% of TK/K students feel safe at school. School Connectedness: The California Healthy Kids Survey results in 2017-2018 stated that 46% of 5th graders and 42% of 7th graders had a high level of school connectedness. This compares to data from 2015-2016 that stated that 73% of 5th graders and 74% of 7th graders had a high level of school connectedness.  This compares to data from 2013-2014 that stated that 55% of 5th graders and 71% of 7th graders had a high level of school connectedness. New data will be collected during the 2019-2020 school year. The percentage of students who are happy to be at Guerneville School in 2018-2019 was 90% for 5th grade and 94% for 7th grade. In 2017-2018 data this was 100% for elementary and 82% for middle school.    MEANING: Overall, students are very happy to be in the Guerneville School District. Our levels of school connectedness did decrease from 2015-2016 to 2017-2018, however, we have had several natural disasters (floods and fires) that have impacted our community and school transiency. We look forward to analyzing the data from the 2019-2020 Healthy Kids Survey to obtain a better picture of our students' level of school connectedness.  USE: We will continue to implement and evaluate LCAP Goal 5:  Campus Pride & Safety: Provide a safe and secure campus and LCAP Goal 2: Students, Staff and Families are excited and engaged in their learning and leadership.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
24736190000000|Gustine Unified|6|The climate survey was administered to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 in the 2018-2019 school year.  The key findings are that 56% of students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 "agree" or "strongly agree" that they are connected to the school.  The highest level occurs in 5th grade with 65% connectedness, followed by 9th grade (61%), 7th grade (53%), and 11th grade (46%).  This information tells us that middle school and eleventh grade have lower connectedness than other grade levels.  The district looked at the previous data and found that there was a when comparing the same students from two year ago, 7th grade had an increase of 5%,  9th grade had an increase of 5%, and 11th grade had a decrease of 1%.  The data shows an upward trend for the most part.   When looking at school safety 73% of 5th graders feel safe, followed by 9th grade (61%), 7th grade (53%), and 11th grade (46%).  When comparing this 18-19 data with 16-17 data the district found that there was a large increase of feeling safe amongst 5th grade students.  Seventh grade increased 19% in feeling safe at school.  Ninth grade had 5% increase and 11th grade decreased by 1%.  Overall more students felt safe or very safe at school in the 18-19 school year.   This data means that overall the district is moving in a positive direction regarding school connectedness and safety.  There is still much work to be done in these areas.  The additional activities that are provided seem to be increasing the feeling of belonging to the school community.  The district has also increased counseling services in hopes to work with students and help them to be successful academically and feel a part of the school community.  Some challenges we are facing are students who are not participating in the activities, events, and clubs that we are offering.  We will need to get more feedback from students to hear from them which activities we could provide to increase connectedness.  When reviewed the results of school safety, there was an overall increase.  The district has partnered with safety companies and worked toward making the campuses safer.  This is also an area that can be improved.  PBIS was implemented, but one of the barriers has been staff turnover and because of that some of the PBIS teams were not able to continue due to not being trained.  As the district works toward continuous improvement, sites will continue to implement PBIS and train additional people in tiers II and III.  PBIS is at various stages at each of the school sites and we need to continue to implement school-wide PBIS in order to create and maintain an environment that is safe.  The district will continue to support each site in their progress toward a fully implemented PBIS program.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19734450000000|Hacienda la Puente Unified|6|The results of the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids survey indicate a slightly lower sense of safety and connectedness at school from the previous survey in 2016-17. 61.4% of students report a general sense of safety at school.  59.5% of students have an overall connectedness to school.  The perception of school safety is highest at grade 5 (79%), and lowest at Grade 11 (54%). The same is true for overall school connectedness, with grade 5 being the most connected (73%) and grade 11 being the least connected (51%)      A close examination of the key data that comprises school safety was conducted.  About 10% of students report having seen a weapon at school.  37% of students report having had mean rumors or lies spread about them. 28% of students in grades 7 and above report having experienced harassment or bullying at some point in the last year.       The key data elements comprising school connectedness were also examined. 75% of students report feeling academically motivated.  These numbers drop off from a high of 87% in grade 5, to a low of 67% in grade 11. 60% of students report having are working relationship with one or more caring adults.  71% of students report having high expectations placed on them, but when asked if they felt their participation in school was meaningful, only 31% agreed.  45% of student reported that their school facilities are well maintained.  The percent of students report that parents are involved with schooling is 56%.   These data suggest the need for the district to take the following actions:    Strengthen MTSS implementation for consistency within and between all schools districtwide through PD and supports based on sites’ specific areas of need. Positive behavior supports (PBIS) and the development of monitoring systems to be included in PD.    Strengthen the clear articulation of existing comprehensive school safety plans to the student level to increase the perception of safety at school.  The use of the student Climate and Mindset Survey annually, or in CaHKS off-years will be explored.   Continue Equity & Access department support staff, including Student Support TOSAs/COSAs, and Foster-Homeless Liaison to increase effective coordination of services to at-risk students.    Strengthen and enhance implementation of the Teen Workshops and Teen Summit for students in grades 7-12. Strengthen and expand the New Pedagogies for Deep Learning through regular and ongoing PD to make learning experiences more meaningful to students.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
10624141030766|Hallmark Charter|6|A district total of 492 5th grade elementary students and 468 6th grade elementary students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 51%. Key Indicators of School Climate and Student Well-Being were in four areas including School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Disciplinary Environment. In the area of School Engagement and Supports students rated the sub-areas school connectedness, caring adult relationships and academic motivation the highest with a range of 79-90% describing the percentage of students who perceived that teachers cared for them, recognized their performance and created an environment conducive to feelings of connectedness to the adults at school. In the area of School Safety a full 82% of students feel safe at school “most or all of the time”. An average of 9% of 5th and 6th grade students reported mean rumors being spread about them or report having been called bad names. This is a focus area for the district. The Disciplinary Environment is viewed positively with 88% of students reporting being treated with respect.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
11765620000000|Hamilton Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
19647336017438|Hamlin Charter Academy|6|Hamlin Charter Academy administered the School Experience Survey to students in grades third, fourth, and fifth grades during the 2018-19 school year.  81% of Hamlin students reported that they feel safe at the school, and 78% reported that they felt connected to the school.  Hamlin Charter implemented the Restorative Justice program and Sanford Harmony to support social-emotional learning.Hamlin Charter administered the 2017-18 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 3rd - 5th graders. The students' participation rate for this survey was 95%. The following are questions that pertain to school climate and the percentage of students indicating All of the Time and Most of the Time are noted next to the question. 1. Do you feel like you are a part of this school? 81% 2. Are you happy to be at this school? 85% 3. Do you feel safe at school? 85% 4. Do adults at this school treat students with respect? 90% To further assess our local school climate, the Rubric of Implementation (ROI) data tool is used to collect data and monitor our school's progress in the implementation of the school's Discipline Foundation Policy. A positive behavior support plan is implemented school-wide to provide a safe environment for students and staff.  Students are recognized and rewarded for exhibiting appropriate behavior. Data on student behavior is analyzed and monitored.|2019-09-25|To date, office referrals have decreased by 20%. Hamlin Charter will use the data from the 2019-20 School Experience Survey.|Met|2019
16639170000000|Hanford Elementary|6|Students overwhelmingly feel safe and "connected" to their school.  Based on the 18-19 HESD Student LCAP Survey students agree/strongly agree with the following statements: I feel safe at school. Agree/Strongly Agree 80.92% I enjoy learning at my school.  Agree/Strongly Agree 79.09% I plan to go to college.  Agree/Strongly Agree 93.5% There is an adult I can talk to if I have a problem at school. 82.62%  Parents are satisfied with the education their students’ receive and with their school’s climate.   Based on the 18-19 HESD Parent Survey: My child is receiving satisfactory instruction in ELA and math. Agree/Strongly Agree 96% My child receives adequate support so he can make satisfactory progress towards the standards in ELA and math. Agree/Strongly Agree 94% When I have questions about my child’s classwork, I can ask for clarification and assistance from my child’s school. Agree/Strongly Agree 95% My child is safe at school.  Agree/Strongly Agree 92%|2019-03-13||Met|2019
16639250000000|Hanford Joint Union High|6|Students rated HJUHSD 2.46 out of 4 when asked if they feel they can talk to a staff member if they have a problem. Students rated HJUHSD 2.77 out of 4 when asked if they feel they are part of their school. Students rated HJUHSD 3.31 out of 4 when asked if they feel their teachers want them to be successful. Students rated HJUHSD 3.09 out of 4 when asked if they feel they are treated fairly at school. Students rated HJUHSD 3.16 out of 4 when asked if they feel they are receiving a good education at their school. Students rated HJUHSD 3.02 out of 4 when asked if they feel safe on the school grounds. Students rated HJUHSD 2.35 out of 4 when asked if they feel physical fighting or conflicts happen regularly at school.|2019-10-08|Overall students feel their teachers want them to be successful, are treated fairly, are receiving a good education and feel safe. Based on the results we still have work to do as it relates to connecting with students. Most students do not feel they can talk to a staff member if they have a problem and do not feel part of the school. The area of most concern relates to physical fights and or conflicts that occur on campuses.    HJUHSD has decided to build upon our current RTI model by partnering with our County Office in order to guide us in developing a Multi Tiered System of Support (MTSS) framework that will enable us with the structure to provide all 3 areas of student support (1) Academic (2) Social/Emotional and (3) Behavioral success. It will provide the tools we need for continuous improvement, problem-solving and decision-making. It will also allow us to positively impact students and their families, setting them on a path for success.|Met|2019
16639250137901|Hanford Online Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
47703340000000|Happy Camp Union Elementary|6|The Climate Survey was conducted and results were reviewed by the Board of Education and Staff.  We established a couple of goals from the Climate Survey.  One goal was to create a more supportive culture from staff. The Principal became very visible and approachable.  Issues were addressed as quickly as possible.  A second goal was to make school fun and enjoyable for students.   A treasure box for students caught being good was implemented as well as  a monthly drawing for perfect attendance.|2019-09-19|The District added a computer lab to assist students who needed a time out.  The District hired a Resource Specialist Teacher to assist students below in math and language arts.|Met|2019
44697570000000|Happy Valley Elementary|6|Results from the Student Climate survey reports that 95% of students believe that "The adults at my school care about me", 90% feel supported by their teacher, and 89% feel safe at school. When asked why students might not feel safe, the survey response was there might not be enough friends to play with or that a friend might not want to play with them at recess. 87% of students reported that they like the social/ emotional program called Peacebuilders and when asked what was their favorite part, 100% reported the peace path.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
45700110000000|Happy Valley Union Elementary|6|The survey indicates that 87% of the students feel safe at school. 57% feel that they are treated respectfully by other students and 86% report treating others respectfully. 88% report that adults on campus treat them fairly. However, 34% of students report seeing other being mistreated. 80% of students have either been the recipient of or have witness what they consider to be bullying behavior.|2019-11-12|The District has been working on school climate, behavior, and bully prevention. As is often the case, addressing the issue raises awareness and likewise reports increase. We are building a culture of mutual respect through our PBIS and MTSS programs.  We have hired behaviorists at both school sites to intervene and work with students who are having emotional and behavioral issues. The Data Story Teams are updating both the student culture survey and parent survey to reflect school climate, safety, parent engagement, family needs, and suggestions for continuous improvement.|Met|2019
37681630128421|Harbor Springs Charter|6|In 2017-18, as part of the 2018 LCAP Stakeholder survey, all students were asked to complete 25 questions from the School Climate module of the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS).  Response options were: yes, Neutral/I don’t know, or no.  Positive perception questions focus on topics such as learning in a program that they like, with helpful teachers and interesting activities, within a safe and connected environment.  Student in grades 3-12 were surveyed.  Students responded positively to 77% of the questions, indicating an overall positive perception of the school’s climate.  The two statements with the highest ratings were: “I get along with people who are different than me,” and “I think students enjoy doing things with each other.”  The two statements with the lowest positive ratings were: “I think students pay attention in class,” and “I think students usually follow the rules at school.”  These and more detailed results were reported to the Governing Board during the LCAP process in June 2019.  The school plans to include a segment of the CHKS again in the 2020-21 school year, meeting the State Priority 6 requirements.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
36678760122317|Hardy Brown College Prep|6|Hardy Brown College Prep annually administers a survey to parents at all grades served. In 2017-18 Hardy Brown College Prep administered this survey to kindergarten through 9th grade parents/guardians. Key finding was that 91 percent of the parents were satisfied or strongly satisfied with their school. Additionally, 90 percent of parents felt their school administrator was respectful and professional and 93 percent rated their school culture as positive. Parents also felt that the parent education and involvement opportunities were helpful, with 95 percent of them rating those as helpful or very helpful.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
54755230116590|Harmony Magnet Academy|6|Harmony Magnet Academy (HMA) used the California Healthy Kids (CHKS) survey in 2017-2018 as a baseline to get students’ input. The survey content overview is as follows: Characteristics of parent respondents and their children; Student supports and school conditions (learning environment, school discipline, cultural sensitivity, opportunities for meaningful student participation); How welcoming the school is to parents; The scope and nature of parental involvement in school activities and decision-making; The scope and nature of school communications to parents; Parental involvement in their children’s education; and Parental perceptions of student risk behaviors (how much of a problem at the school. HMA used the California Healthy Kids survey in 2018-2019 to get 9th & 11th grade students’ input.The  questions  are  aligned  with  the  staff  and  parent  surveys  so  information  obtained  across  these  three  stakeholder groups can be compared. In 2018-19 the total number of student respondents were 244 students out of 273. Overall School Connectedness Scales for HMA averaged 68% of “Strongly agree”  & “Agree” that they are happy to be at the school and they feel like they are part of the school. The 9th & 11th grade students results for perceived safety at school was an average of 72% “Very Safe” & “Safe”. All students need to feel safe and connected to school so that they continue to attend school, behave appropriately, and attain a high school graduation diploma. Overall in the district HKS survey 92% of all parents, 73% of elementary students, and 60% of high school students feel that school is a safe place an average of 75%. The following information was also obtained from the Dashboard data of Fall 2018 to report student connectedness district-wide: Attendance rate = 94%, Suspension rate = 6%, and Expulsion rate = 0.6% and Graduation rate of 84.6%. HMA/PUSD will continue to provide personalized learning plans and transition process to give students the opportunity to link academics to their career interest through assessment of the graduate outcome rubric, interest inventories and enrollment in career exploration electives. HMA/PUSD will continue to  implement academic social, and behavioral interventions, transition programs, mentoring, early intervention programs, and after school activities to support students' connectedness to school. PUSD school campuses have been secured and enclosed by a fence. All schools have functional security cameras and shade structures. PUSD has hired additional personnel counselors, psychologists, nurses and behavioral intervention specialist to meet the social & emotional needs of all students.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
49707300000000|Harmony Union Elementary|6|Harmony USD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to its eligible students.  The survey is useful in understanding trends in student experience both at the school, as well as at home and in the community.  In response, Harmony USD is implementing more relevant topics and training for the middle school advisory, and is developing after school opportunities to support students in after school hours activities.  Though the information from the survey is important at a local level, results from the CHKS are not statistically significant given the small sample size.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
37683386040018|Harriet Tubman Village Charter|6|Tubman administered several surveys and held a Town Hall meeting during the 2018-2019 school year. These surveys were provided both onsite and sent home to families. Key takeaways regarding school climate are as follows: students feel very safe at Tubman and most believe that our staff is able to help them if they are in need. Parents would also like more emphasis in student leadership. Many feel very connected to their peers and staff, but there is some room for improvement in this category.  Most of the survey results are similar even when broken down by grade, race, and gender. Because of the small size of the school, some categories have a small number of respondents, so we are cautious to read too much into slight differences in responses. We will continue to monitor results of upcoming surveys to determine if there are differences across student groups.  Tubman has made several large structural changes for the 2019-2020 school year, many of which were the result of the surveys. Changes include adding the Leader in Me student leadership program, block bell schedule for middle school, math course based on ability, rather than grade level, and electives based on student input that focus on college and career. To date, we have received positive responses from staff, students, and parents. We will continue to monitor our progress and send our surveys during the school year to monitor and assess.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
50710926112965|Hart-Ransom Academic Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
50710920000000|Hart-Ransom Union Elementary|6|CHKS DATA 2018-2019 results:  *Students feel safe at School:  5th grade 90% up from 86% in 2016-2017; 7th grade 83% up from 71% in 2016-2017. *Caring Adult relationships at school - 5th - 74%; 7th - 66%. *Meaningful participation - 5th - 40%; 7th  - 66%  *Academic motivation:  5th - 94%; 7th  - 83%  DASHBOARD DATA *Suspension rate for 2018 as reported by Dashboard - 1.9% up from 5.6% on 2017 Dashboard. *Caring Adult relationships at school - 5th grade 74%; 7th grade 66%.   *Expulsion rate 2018-19: 0%, down from 2016-17: .08% MEANING:  Strengths:  The schoolwide PBIS focus is being successful.  Students feel safer at school than they two years ago.  Both suspensions and explusions have decreased.  Academic motivation is high in both grades. The area that was a concern is the connections to caring adults.  This was low at both grade levels and especially at the junior high level.  A barrier in the 7th grade is that the 47 minute class time does not easily promote relationship building.   USE:  Continued focus on PBIS Big 3 values to promote appropriate behavior.  Lunch-time fun activities for all students involving administration and staff to build relationships have been implemented. Some of these include: dance party, corn-hole games, football Fridays, hula hoop games.  Each year since 2016 there has been professional development regarding trauma informed practices has provided to staff.  Continued professional development in this area will be offered each year. Professional development in the area of mindfulness will be provided for all staff to support students and to build relationships between students and staff members.  PRIORITY 6 - MET|2019-10-10|As a result of the focus on trauma informed practices,and the decrease in suspension and increase in academic achievement,  the PBIS BIG 3 values, the work with students who struggle with academics and/or behavior, Hart-Ransom has been awarded the Silver Medal Award in 2019 by the California PBIS Coalition, and a team will be presenting at the state California PBIS Coalition state conference in October 2019.|Met|2019
31668520121608|Harvest Ridge Cooperative Charter|6|The goal for students to continue to demonstrate strong resiliency in making appropriate decisions is a constant and active goal for the school. A Student Safety Climate survey was administered in the fall of 2018 to all students in grades 3 through 8.  Student survey results from the school's student survey indicated 95% of students feel strong school connectedness. This established a baseline to use in comparing future years. Also, student survey baseline information was established through the survey and indicated that 93% of students found that school was perceived as safe or very safe. In looking at student indicators for students feeling safe and respected on the playground, the survey showed that only 80% of students felt that they were respected by others on the playground, and 25% said they were bullied on the playground.  When those results are reviewed, there are obvious needs for growth evident in the area of school connectedness and personal relationships among students, especially on the playground. In the area of feeling safe, a strong percentage of older students are perceiving the school as safe or very safe, but there is still room for improvement with this data. To help close the gap between desired results and student feedback, there has been emphasis put on culture and safety. The school will continue work with students in the areas of belonging, bullying, safety, and emotional regulation, and will be looking at implementing a program to support this need.  Culture is embedded in the school climate and with positive improvements to the culture, there should be a direct correlation to positive improvements in the school climate.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
37684110126086|Hawking S.T.E.A.M. Charter|6|Findings reported: Hawking STEAM Charter Schools administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 3-7 that captures a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness across both school sites.   PARTICIPATION RATE: SITE #1 A total of 184 students in grades 3-5 participated and completed the survey, an 84% student participation rate.   Caring adults in school: • 77% grade 3, 89% grade 4, 86% grade 5 agreed teachers and other grown-ups at the school care about them most/all of the time.  • 60% grade 3, 64% grade 4, 65% grade 5 agreed teachers and other grown-ups at the school make an effort to get to know them most/all of the time.  School Connectedness: • 41% grade 3, 54% grade 4, 55% grade 5 students feel close to people at the school most/all of the time.  • 78% grade 3, 90% grade 4, 76% grade 5 students are happy to be at this school.  • 81% grade 3, 79% grade 4, 73% grade 5 students feel like they are part of this school.  • 75% grade 3, 90% grade 4, 71% grade 5 students feel safe at school   2018-19: Participation Rate: 100% (n=95 Gr. 6-7) SITE 1 (Secondary) A total of 95 students in grades 6-7 participated and completed the survey, a 100% student participation rate.   Caring adults in school: • 83% grade 6, and 66% grade 7, agreed teachers and other grown-ups at the school care about them.  • 82% grade 6, and 65% grade 7, agreed teachers and other grown-ups at the school notice when they (student) are not there.  School Connectedness: • 75% grade 6, and 70% grade 7 students feel close to people at the school most/all of the time.  • 78% grade 6,  and 66% grade 7, students are happy to be at this school.  • 85% grade 6, and 67% grade 7, students feel like they are part of this school.  • 91% grade 6, and 61% grade 7, students feel safe at school   PARTICIPATION RATE: SITE #2 A total of 156 students in grades 3-6 participated and completed the survey, a 59% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: Caring adults in school: • 82%% grade 3, 86% grade 4, 78% grade 5, 50% grade 6 agreed teachers and other grown-ups at the school care about them most/all of the time.  • 68% grade 3, 41% grade 4, 51% grade 5, 23% grade 6 agreed teachers and other grown-ups at the school make an effort to get to know them most/all of the time.  School Connectedness: • 38 grade 3, 37% grade 4, 43% grade 5, 58% grade 6 students feel close to people at the school most/all of the time.  • 82% grade 3, 63% grade 4, 66% grade 5, 46% grade 6 students are happy to be at this school.  • 79% grade 3, 70% grade 4, 69% grade 5, 38% grade 6 students feel like they are part of this school.  • 83% grade 3, 77% grade 4, 76% grade 5, 61% grade 6 students feel safe at school  For the 2019-20 school year, our staff will utilize the results of the CHKS to improve schoolwide support services, student connectedness and increase student participation rates for the CHKS.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19645920000000|Hawthorne|6|The District administered the HSD California Healthy Kids Survey to all eligible students in grades 5 and 7. Participation in the survey was dependent upon authorization by a student's parent or guardian. In the 2018-19 school year, the target sample of students in grade 5 was 803, with 427 students participating, resulting in a response rate of 53%.  The target sample for students in grade 7 was 761, with 218 students participating, resulting in a response rate of 29%.  It should be noted that the constructs of the survey require that the response rate for any group be above 70% in order for the associated results to be deemed valid.     The administration of the survey in grades 5 and 7 yielded the following results: In grade 5, 67% of students recorded a high level of school connectedness, 25% moderate school connectedness, and 8% low connectedness. In grade 7, 55% of students recorded a high level of school connectedness, 29% moderate school connectedness, and 15% low connectedness. In grade 5, 64 % of students reported feeling safe at school all of the time or most of the time, 27% moderate, and 10% felt a low degree of safety.   In grade 7, 65% of students reported feeling very safe or safe at school, 30% moderate, and 4% felt a low degree of safety. In analyzing the data associated with the survey, the District is studying any significant differences reported between student groups (for example, the lower level of feelings of connectedness amongst students in grade 7 compared to grade 5 and the lower level of feelings of safety in grade 5 compared to grade 7).|2019-09-11|The District maintains a counselor and a dean of students at each school site to provide effective and proactive supports for students, staff, and families.  The focus for these individuals at the school sites is to further improve the school climate in regards to student feeler safe and the feeling of consecutiveness in all schools. The district’s deans and counselors also serve as members of broader school-based teams, implementing behavioral supports, small group and individual counseling, incentives for positive behavior, direct instruction to support anti-bullying efforts and social-emotional learning, and professional development for staff on effective classroom management practices, Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), Culturally-Responsive Teaching and Learning (CRTL) supports and Olweus Bullying Prevention Program (OBPP). A comprehensive model of Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS), with multiple layers of intervention are provided by administrators, teachers, deans, support staff, and families.  A district-wide focus on personalized learning and developing meaningful bonds with students is aimed at positively affecting feelings of school connectedness.  The district will continue to work on studying the student survey results, parent and staff input and work on refining these practices so that students’ feelings of connectives and safety are improved in the upcoming years.|Met|2019
19645920100354|Hawthorne Math and Science Academy|6|HMSA administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to all eligible 9th grade students every other year. Participation in the survey is dependent upon authorization by a student's parent or guardian. In the 2018-19 school year, the target sample of students was 167, with 143 participating, resulting in a response rate of 86%.     The administration of the survey in 9th grade yielded the following results: 55% of students recorded a high level of school connectedness, 40% moderate school connectedness, and 5% low connectedness. 81% of students reported feeling very safe or safe at school, 15% moderate school connectedness, and 2% low connectedness. In analyzing the data associated with the survey, HMSA is studying any significant differences reported between student groups (for example, the various levels of feelings of school connectedness and feelings of safety amongst males compared to females). Also, HMSA has noted that students are not reporting to have a high level of connectedness to the school as they are reporting to feeling safe.|2019-09-11|HMSA operates a comprehensive model of Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS), with multiple layers of intervention provided by teachers, administrators, support staff, and families.  A partnership with UCLA's Equity Project has helped to ensure that culturally and linguistically responsive teaching and learning is a standard throughout the school. Counselors and security staff work in conjunction with teachers and administrators to ensure that all students feel welcome, supported, and accepted at the school.  However, the focus for the upcoming year is to increase the opportunities of school activities for students feeling a sense of school connectedness.|Met|2019
19647336017529|Haynes Charter For Enriched Studies|6|Haynes Charter administered the 2018-2019 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 3rd-5th graders. The student participation rate for this survey was 100%. The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the percentage of students indicating Agree/Strongly Agree are noted next to the question. 1. I am happy to be at this school. 81% - 2.. I feel like I am a part of this school. - 76%  3. I feel Accepted for who I am at this school.- 73% 4. I feel safe at this school. - 85%  To build a safe, respectful and caring environment, the school implements the LAUSD School-Wide Positive Behavior Intervention and Support Program by systematically teaching desired behaviors in tandem with an incentive program for kindness, respect and helpfulness. Students look forward to and enjoy the weekly announcements highlighting students who have been "recognized" for being kind, respectful, helpful and responsible. To further build community, the school collaborates with the PTO to organize community events for school and community participation.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
01100170138867|Hayward Collegiate Charter|6|Hayward Collegiate is a new charter elementary school that opened on August 19, 2019. As such, we are administering our local climate survey next year to get an adequate understanding of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. We continue to work to strengthen conditions for belonging. Focus areas include African American students’ sense of belonging and academic engagement and identity of students not yet meeting course standards.|2019-11-13|Hayward Collegiate is a new charter elementary school that opened on August 19, 2019. As such, we are administering our local climate survey next year to get an adequate understanding of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. We continue to work to strengthen conditions for belonging. Focus areas include African American students’ sense of belonging and academic engagement and identity of students not yet meeting course standards.|Met|2019
01611920000000|Hayward Unified|6|We annually administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade students enrolled at all 30 district K-12 schools.  The CHKS includes questions on perceived safety and supportive relationships.  In 2018-2019, our overall participation rate was 78.38%.  Target questions address Safety: ‘I feel Safe at School;’ and Relationship with a Caring Adult at School:  ‘Do the teachers and other grownups at school care about you?’ ‘Do the teachers and other grownups at school listen when you have something to say?’(5th) ’At my school there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me,’ ‘At my school there is a teacher or some other adult who notices when I’m not here,’ ‘At my school there is a teacher or some other adult who listens to me when I have something to say.’ (7,9,11,NT).  Reported are the rates of student positive response indicating they feel ‘safe or very safe’ at school and agreeing with the adult relationship statements as ‘pretty much true and very much true.’   Overall, an increased number of students across all participating grades reported feeling safe at school, with the elementary, middle and non-traditional high school students being more likely to report feeling safe or very safe at school, +2% to 70%,  +7% to 61%, and +5% to 58% respectively.  High school students were less likely to report similar levels of safety but they did increase, +4% to 43% of 9th graders and +10% to 37% of 11th graders in traditional high schools reporting feeling safe or very safe at school.   Of surveyed students, 57% reported strong connection to an adult at school, with elementary students being more likely to report a strong relationship in contrast to middle and high school students.  67% of elementary students agreed the statements are ‘pretty much true and very much true,’ with 59% of middle school students and 51% of 9th grade, 51% of 11th grade and 64% of nontraditional high school students surveyed agreed the statements are ‘pretty much true and very much true.’  There has been a change of reporting by CHKS for 2018-2019, with strong adult relationship being reported as both ‘pretty much and very much true,’ in contrast to 2017-2018 when it was reported as ‘very much true’ only.  With this, there is little/no change in the rates of reporting students it is ‘very much true’ that they have a strong connection with an adult at school. These results are somewhat positive, specifically with the increase in students reporting that they feel safe at school.  This data highlights the need to be intentional and targeted in efforts to ensure a safe and positive learning environment.  Our schools are continuing to implement Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS), Restorative Practices (RP) and Coordination of Services Teams (COST) to support our students.  Schools are developing tools to seek student voice to learn more about what actions will best strengthen relationships at school.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
49753900124230|Healdsburg Charter|6|HUSD annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey including the module on social-emotional needs to all 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th graders.  We are pleased to report that in the 3 main areas HUSD has been tracking for the LCAP we saw a rise in the percentage of students who report they feel safe at school, are connected to school and that they have a caring adult relationship at school.  For 5th graders, the rise in perceptions of school safety increased from 79% in 2017-18 to 87% in 2018-19.  For 7th, 9th and 11th graders the average percent increase in school safety increased from 57% to 59%.  The greatest gains were in the percent of 5th graders who reported school connectedness, which jumped from 35% in 2017-19 to 75% in 2018-19.  For middle and high school students school connectedness rose from 15% to 56%.  HUSD also saw increases in the percent of students reporting they have a caring adult relationship at school.  In 2017-18, 46% of 5th graders and only 24% on average of middle and high school students reported having a caring adult relationship at school compared to an increase in 2018-19, where 81% of 5th graders and 56% of middle and high school students reported they had a caring adult relationship.      HUSD has increased counseling support, provided training in restorative practices, trauma and positive behavior supports.  We plan to continue these efforts towards continuous improvement since we are seeing positive movement in the data provided through the CA Healthy Kids Survey and other data sources as well.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
49753900000000|Healdsburg Unified|6|HUSD annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey including the module on social-emotional needs to all 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th graders.  We are pleased to report that in the 3 main areas HUSD has been tracking for the LCAP we saw a rise in the percentage of students who report they feel safe at school, are connected to school and that they have a caring adult relationship at school.  For 5th graders, the rise in perceptions of school safety increased from 79% in 2017-18 to 87% in 2018-19.  For 7th, 9th and 11th graders the average percent increase in school safety increased from 57% to 59%.  The greatest gains were in the percent of 5th graders who reported school connectedness, which jumped from 35% in 2017-19 to 75% in 2018-19.  For middle and high school students school connectedness rose from 15% to 56%.  HUSD also saw increases in the percent of students reporting they have a caring adult relationship at school.  In 2017-18, 46% of 5th graders and only 24% on average of middle and high school students reported having a caring adult relationship at school compared to an increase in 2018-19, where 81% of 5th graders and 56% of middle and high school students reported they had a caring adult relationship.      HUSD has increased counseling support, provided training in restorative practices, trauma and positive behavior supports.  We plan to continue these efforts towards continuous improvement since we are seeing positive movement in the data provided through the CA Healthy Kids Survey and other data sources as well.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
39686760123802|Health Careers Academy|6|Through School Climate Survey results we found that: 89% of our students feel safe. 91% of our students feel there is a teacher who believes they will succeed. 76% of our students feel that they are part of the school.  HCA’s staff believes in being nurturing and optimistic with our students.  The culture of HCA is built and sustained through our PASSION acronym.  We continue to evolve and improve in all areas that will increase student achievement.  Our entire staff are dedicated to creating a learning environment for students to thrive in.  We continue to work with students to improve awareness in regards to social and emotional needs, substance abuse, and appropriate use of social media.    HCA’s counseling team continues to evolve.  Counselors are creating more opportunities to work with students individually, and in groups to address the academic and social/emotional needs of our students. Teachers have scheduled parent conferences for all students during each Term. HCA student leadership group, and PLUS program continue to provide support for all students to help them feel included in HCA.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
37683380114462|Health Sciences High|6|HSHMC used MyVoice student survey to measure school climate and conditions. According to the My Voice Data, 82% students feel welcomed, 80% of HSHMC students are proud of their school, and 62% of students at HSHMC participated in the at least one extra-curricular activity throughout the 2018-2019 school year. HSHMC used MyVoice student survey to measure school climate and conditions. Goals for the 2019-2020 school year include 80% of all students feeling welcomed, 80% of the students will feel proud of their school and 70% of students will participate in the at least one extra-curricular activity.|2019-09-05|HSHMC maintains a welcoming, inclusive climate and culture that honors student voice and family perspectives. Through our continued work in Restorative Practices, efforts to create conditions that support students' aspirations, building student-teacher relationships, honoring student voice both inside and outside the classroom environment, and increasing attendance of parent involvement in leadership and school-wide activities, students will feel welcomed and valued.|Met|2019
37683380128066|Health Sciences Middle|6|HSMS used MyVoice student survey to measure school climate and conditions. According to the My Voice Data, 82% students feel welcomed, 80% of HSHMC students are proud of their school, and 62% of students at HSHMC participated in the at least one extra-curricular activity throughout the 2018-2019 school year. HSMS used MyVoice student survey to measure school climate and conditions. Goals for the 2019-2020 school year include 80% of all students feeling welcomed, 80% of the students will feel proud of their school and 70% of students will participate in the at least one extra-curricular activity.|2019-09-05|HSMS maintains a welcoming, inclusive climate and culture that honors student voice and family perspectives. Through our continued work in Restorative Practices, efforts to create conditions that support students' aspirations, building student-teacher relationships, honoring student voice both inside and outside the classroom environment, and increasing attendance of parent involvement in leadership and school-wide activities, students will feel welcomed and valued.|Met|2019
04100410430090|Hearthstone School|6|The LEA supports with site council training, including making training accessible to parents serving on the council. In addition, the LEA supports principals with identifying ways to further engage stakeholders in authentic decision-making that supports student achievement and overall well-being. BCOE schools are small learning communities. Administrators, teachers and support staff at each site reach out to parents to invite them to be a part of training and the decision making process, including SSC and LCAP. Because BCOE schools serve high-risk youth, staff also reach out to community partners to seek their participation.  Underrepresented families are personally invited to participate in the local decision-making process, either by survey, or by serving on a school site council. LEA administration reviews policy requirements and drafts the required language of these documents for site administrators.  Site administrators work with stakeholder groups to add site specific language and the Site Council provides feedback and approves the documents for distribution.  Policy is distributed as an Appendix to the Site Handbook each fall.  The LEA ensures information related to school and parent programs, meetings, and other activities is sent to the parents of participating students  in a format, and to the extent practicable, in a language the parents can understand, by utilizing bilingual staff to translate documents and/or meetings.  The LEA also supports sites with identifying two-way communication systems to ensure parents have access to school communications and can reply, as needed.  All buildings are ADA compliant and the LEA is working on 508 compliance for websites.  The LEA provides opportunities for the informed participation of parents and family members with disabilities by providing reasonable accommodations (such as sign-language interpreters, etc.) to parents and family members. As requested, special accommodations are made for communicating with families that have accessibility needs or other special needs which make corresponding with the school difficult.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
15636280138131|Heartland Charter|6|The climate survey was administered to all 5th-grade students. Students shared how they could connect with their teachers via phone, e-mail, online learning platform (blackboard, Zoom) or in-person while having access to assistance as needed from Principal or counselor. The students stated they felt connected to school through the educational field trips, enrichment activities, and other social events offered through the school such as zoo days, school dances, field trips or park days.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
49707970139568|Heartwood Charter|6|We are a new school and have not yet conducted a climate survey.|2019-12-04|We are a new school and have only been open since Sept 24th, 2019.  We do not have any results of a climate survey.  We are an Independent Study Charter School and so would have a different climate survey than site-based programs.|Met|2019
41690216044754|Heather Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
13631310000000|Heber Elementary|6|Two years ago the Heber Elementary School District adopted Capturing Kids Hearts district-wide. The program focuses on the following school climate aspects: • How to build meaningful, productive relationships with every student and every colleague. • How to use the EXCEL Model of teaching to create a safe, effective environment for learning. • How to develop self-managing, high-performing classrooms using team-building skills and a Social Contract. • High payoff techniques for dealing with conflict, negative behavior, and disrespectful behavior  Heber Elementary SD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 140 seventh graders in the 2018-2019 school year. For the purposes of summarizing results, HESD focused on three areas of the survey: a) School Performance, Supports, and Engagements b) School Violence, Victimization, and Safety and C) Alcohol and Other Drug Use. In the area of School Performance:  a) 84% of students surveyed, felt that school supports of caring adults, high expectations and meaningful participation were in place.  b)  61% of students surveyed, felt very safe or safe at school and 32% neither felt safe or unsafe in the area of School Violence:  c) In the area of Alcohol and Drug Use:       •11% of students surveyed, reported taking alcohol              • 4% of students surveyed, had used marijuana             • 2% of students surveyed, reported using an illegal inhalant              • 0% of students surveyed, reported taking a drug to get high   The data reveals that the area of strength is adults have high expectations and care about students.   The challenges or barriers are students do not feel meaningful participation in school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
36677360000000|Helendale Elementary|6|The Academy of Careers and Exploration administers an annual climate survey that focuses on the student's perception of whole school, classroom, bus, cafeteria, and bathroom safety. These surveys are administered to every student in grade 7-12. The results are reported at annual stakeholder meetings in order to gain feedback for LCAP and Strategic Planning purposes as well as during open session of a regularly scheduled Board Meeting. Annual survey data has had an upward or stable trend over the past six years in all areas. Overall students feel that they attend school in a safe environment where those who are responsible care about their wellbeing. It should be noted that during the last survey administration bullying perceptions were reduced significantly and in the parent climate survey input was more than doubled.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
37681303732732|Helix High|6|Helix Charter High School administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every year to Helix students, parents and staff. We conduct the following additional modules in the survey: Closing the Achievement Gap, Resilience & Youth Development, and Social Emotional Health.  Based on 2019 survey results: --At 9th grade: ***76% reported that they feel safe at school most or all of the time ***22% indicated neither safe or unsafe  --At 10th grade: ***70 percent reported that they feel safe at school most or all of the time ***26% indicated neither safe or unsafe --At 11th grade: ***70 percent reported that they feel safe at school most or all of the time ***26% indicated neither safe or unsafe --At 12th grade: ***73 percent reported that they feel safe at school most or all of the time ***24% indicated neither safe or unsafe  The data analyzed by race/ethnicity, indicated the following: --75% of Hispanic or Latino students; 21% indicated neither safe or unsafe --78% of White students; 20% indicated neither safe or unsafe --69% of Mixed students; 29% indicated neither safe or unsafe --64% of Other students; 32% indicated neither safe or unsafe  Based on these findings, we are working towards incorporating Restorative Practices in our programs. Helix is partnering with the Tariq Khamisa Foundation (TKF) as part of our efforts to address our goal of providing a safe and supportive environment, which allows students and staff to thrive, learn, and grow.  TKF’s mission is to create safer schools and communities by educating and inspiring youth and adults in the restorative principles of accountability, compassion, forgiveness, and peacemaking .|2019-10-21||Met|2019
33670820000000|Hemet Unified|6|Hemet Unified School District administers a local climate survey at least every other year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The 2018-19 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey was provided to students in 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade.    Students in 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade report a sense of being connected to school in a span ranging from 85%-95% (Moderate or High Category).  In addition, 47%-75% of students (of the same grade span) “Moderately” or “Highly” agree with the statement they feel safe on campus.  Information regarding school climate is also gathered from staff and used to inform decision making.  Additionally, school climate information is gathered in support of work around Restorative Justice training, Integrated Systems of Support, tobacco/alcohol/drug prevention as well as peer leadership efforts.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37680980101535|Heritage K-8 Charter|6|We administered a school climate survey to the 8th grade class at Heritage K-8 Charter School that was based on portions of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) that dealt directly with school safety and connectedness. The questions focused on four main areas: 1) safety and cleanliness of the school, 2) general attitudes toward the school, 3) participation in the decision-making process, and 4) relationships with teachers. Students were asked to rate the school on a five-point scale with five at the positive end.   The overall rating for all categories was 3.9 out of 5. On the questions related to school safety, nearly three out of four students felt that they were safe on campus, while only 9% responded that they did not feel safe. For a junior high school, this is an outstanding statistic. Three out of four students felt that the campus was clean and tidy. In the section related to general attitudes about the school, a large majority of students felt connected with other students, with 69% claiming that they were happy at the school. When it came to how students felt about their ability to affect change on campus, the ratings dropped dramatically, with 34% feeling like they did things that made a difference, and 30% feeling as if they had a say in how things worked. This is not surprising, however, given that junior high students are not involved in curriculum and policy decisions, but it also shows that, in at least some areas, students felt like they had some influence. The relationship between students and their teachers is one of the most important categories in the survey. The overall score in this category was 4.1 out of 5. Almost nine out of ten students felt that their teachers treated them fairly, and 92% felt that their teachers wanted them to do their best. Four out of five students responded that their teachers believed they would be a success, with 79% stating that their teachers gave them positive feedback when they performed well. All of the survey results in this area show improvement over the previous year.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
34765050108415|Heritage Peak Charter|6|Annually, Heritage Peak Charter School surveys all stakeholders, including its K-12 students. A majority of the questions in the surveys are directly aligned to the 8 Basic State Priorities including school climate. Data from the survey and stakeholder meetings are reviewed and discussed. High priority status pertaining to student performance, attendance, school facilities, and school climate and course offerings are taken regarding the school’s needs and areas for growth. This information is compiled and the district LCAP is written based from these identified needs. The final plan is provided to the Board of Directors for approval at a regularly scheduled Board meeting in June.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19646000000000|Hermosa Beach City Elementary|6|HBCSD annually completes both local climate surveys and the California Healthy Kids Survey to capture a valid measure of student, staff, and parent perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The California Healthy Kids Survey measures climate within three domains: school engagement and supports, safety, and mental and physical health.  98% of 5th graders and 98% of 7th graders reported that they feel connected to school.  88% of 5th graders and 98% of 7th graders reported that there is a teacher or adult at school that tells me when I do a good job, or who wants me to do my best, or believes that I will be a success.  96% of 5th graders and 91% of 7th graders reported there is a teacher or adult who really cares about me, who notices when I am not there, and who listens when I have something to say. The data also indicated that 84% of 5th graders and 74% of 7th graders perceive school as safe or very safe. This measure is a decline from the previous year in 5th grade by 9% but was maintained in 7th grade. During the 2018-2019 school year, the district launched Start with Hello and partnered with the Sandy Hook Promise as a preventative measure to reduce social isolation in our schools.  District employees were trained along with students in grades 5-8.  The district is making specific and intentional efforts so that no young person suffers silently because they feel left out, alone, or isolated. The "Start with Hello" program teaches students the skills they need to reach out to and include those who may not feel connected at school. In 2018-2019, HBCSD was recognized with the Start with Hello First Prize Award for Community Reach and Sustainability. 89% of HBCSD staff surveyed, reported that the district has provided effective professional development to employees regarding social emotional wellness, cultural competency, and safety.  98.2% of HBCSD staff report that a focus on wellness is a priority for them.  HBSCD parent survey data indicated 78%(2018) and 85%(2019) felt the District provides a safe environment for students and 77%(2018) and 78%(2019) of parents felt HBCSD ensured their child feels connected to school and staff.  The district continues to place a high value on social, academic, and emotional learning and supports.|2019-04-10||Met|2019
19647330112060|Hesby Oaks Leadership Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
36750440000000|Hesperia Unified|6|Through the use of site surveys administered to students in grades four through twelve, sites measured all aspects of social and emotional supports, to measure the school climate. Findings indicate that 84% of students report a positive school culture with 82% feeling connected to school and reporting a caring school climate. 80-85% report feeling safe at school. 82% of high school students reported a positive school culture, as compared to 84% of elementary and middle school students. The percentage of high school students increased from the previous year but work is still needed in all levels. Sites are beginning social-emotional learning programs to help staff understand causes of certain behaviors and learn techniques to deal with the behaviors. The sites are focused on building positive relationships with all students thus strengthening the positive culture feeling at sites.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
50711006112627|Hickman Charter|6|Building a vibrant community of learners has been the hallmark of Hickman Charter School from its beginning 25 years ago. Relationships between parents, students and staff are the key to creating a safe and academically challenging environment for our students. According to a recent survey, 95% of students surveyed felt safe and welcome at school and would recommend their school to a friend. Over 97% replied that students treat each other with respect. Our parent survey found that 97% agreed that HCS maintains a safe, connected school environment. In addition to being a safe and welcoming place, HCS strives to provide the academic rigor that encourages students grow and achieve. An overwhelming 97% of students responded that they become a better student when they work hard and 97% of parents said their students are engaged in school and that HCS provides access to the core subjects needed for preparation for high school and beyond. When asked about plans for continuing their education beyond high school, 89% of 8th graders have definite plans and the remaining 11% have tentative plans.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50711000000000|Hickman Community Charter|6|At Hickman Community Charter District, we pride ourselves on making students feel safe and helping them thrive in an academically challenging environment. After completing a student survey, over 90% of our 5th and 8th graders responded that they feel safe and welcome at school. Over 90% of our students say they think students at their school treat other students with respect on many occasions. Over 95% of the students surveyed stated that they keep trying when school work is challenging for them. HCCD parents also had the opportunity to complete a parent survey regarding school climate and student engagement and which indicated that 95% of parents surveyed agree that students are engaged in school,|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50711006052559|Hickman Elementary|6|At Hickman Elementary School, we pride ourselves on making students feel safe and helping them thrive in an academically challenging environment. After completing a student survey, 95% of our 5th graders responded that they feel safe at school while 93% stated they feel welcome at school. About 91% of our students say they think students at their school treat other students with respect on many occasions. An overwhelming 95% of 5th graders stated that they keep trying when school work is challenging for them! Hickman Elementary School's parents also had the opportunity to complete a parent survey regarding school climate and student engagement. 91% of parents surveyed agree that Hickman Elementary Students are engaged in school, 90% of parents agreed that Hickman gives students access to the core subjects that prepared them for high school and almost 97% of parents agree that HES encourages parent involvement. After analyzing the survey results, the school council determined that HES could have better communication in the upper elementary grades and offer more performing arts/art/PE opportunities for our elementary students.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50711006116388|Hickman Middle|6|At Hickman Middle School, we pride ourselves on making students feel safe and helping them thrive in an academically challenging environment. After completing a student survey, about 90% of our 8th graders responded that they would recommend their school to their friends that do go here. About 89% of our students say they think students at their school treat other students with respect on many occasions. 90% of the middle school parents surveyed responded that Hickman Middle School has a positive school climate and students feel safe at school. An overwhelming 90% of 8th graders stated that they are planning on going to college or some other school after high school. Hickman Middle School's parents also had the opportunity to complete a parent survey regarding school climate and student engagement. Almost 96% of parents surveyed agree that Hickman Middle Students are engaged in school, about 92% of parents agreed that Hickman gives students access to the core subjects that prepared them for high school and almost 98% of parents agree that HMS encourages parent involvement. After analyzing the survey results, the school council determined that HMS should continue to work on effective communication in order to let parents know in a timely manner of the programs and happenings available to students and that students could benefit from more activity-based learning in class.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
37683380131565|High Tech Elementary|6|High Tech High administered a modified version of the YouthTruth student survey at the elementary school level to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. HTH modified the YouthTruth student survey to incorporate more student friendly language so that the survey would be accessible to a range of elementary school students.    Each HTH school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The modified YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school indicated that HTH elementary schools were at the 99th national percentile for the degree to which students indicated they like coming to class.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710123059|High Tech Elementary Chula Vista|6|High Tech High (HTH) administered a modified version of the YouthTruth student survey at the elementary school level to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. HTH modified the YouthTruth student survey to incorporate more student friendly language so that the survey would be accessible to a range of elementary school students.    Each HTH school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The modified YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school indicated that HTH elementary schools were at the 99th national percentile for the degree to which students indicated they like coming to class.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37683386117683|High Tech Elementary Explorer|6|High Tech High administered a modified version of the YouthTruth student survey at the elementary school level to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. HTH modified the YouthTruth student survey to incorporate more student friendly language so that the survey would be accessible to a range of elementary school students.    Each HTH school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The modified YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school indicated that HTH elementary schools were at the 99th national percentile for the degree to which students indicated they like coming to class.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710138776|High Tech Elementary Mesa|6|High Tech High (HTH) administered a modified version of the YouthTruth student survey at the elementary school level to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. HTH modified the YouthTruth student survey to incorporate more student friendly language so that the survey would be accessible to a range of elementary school students.    Each HTH school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The modified YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710127605|High Tech Elementary North County|6|High Tech High (HTH) administered a modified version of the YouthTruth student survey at the elementary school level to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. HTH modified the YouthTruth student survey to incorporate more student friendly language so that the survey would be accessible to a range of elementary school students.    Each HTH school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The modified YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school indicated that HTH elementary schools were at the 99th national percentile for the degree to which students indicated they like coming to class.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37683383731247|High Tech High|6|High Tech High (HTH) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 9-12 at each high school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH high school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized.  For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTH was at the 92nd national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710114678|High Tech High Chula Vista|6|High Tech High (HTH) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 9-12 at each high school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH high school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTH was at the 86th national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37683380106732|High Tech High International|6|High Tech High International (HTHI) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 9-12 at each high school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTHI high school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTHI was at the 90th national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37683380108787|High Tech High Media Arts|6|High Tech High Media Arts (HTHMA) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 9-12 at each high school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTHMA high school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTHMA was at the 87th national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710137067|High Tech High Mesa|6|High Tech High (HTH) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 9-12 at each high school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH high school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTHM was at the 90th national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710114694|High Tech High North County|6|High Tech High North County (HTHNC) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 9-12 at each high school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH high school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTHNC was at the 83rd national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330100677|High Tech LA|6|PARTICIPATION RATE:  HTLA High School administered a student survey to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. A total of 356 students in grades 9-12 participated and completed the survey, an 89% participation rate.  SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES  The following are the student survey results: ? 77% agree/strongly agree they enjoy attending HTLA. ? 71% agree/strongly agree they have a voice at HTLA. ? 83% agree/strongly agree that there is at least 1 adult at the school who knows them (the student) well. ? 94% agree/strongly agree that their teachers are willing to help them when they (the student) has questions. ? 74% agree/strongly agree “I feel like I am part of a community at HTLA.” ? 86% agree/strongly agree that there is at least one adult on campus “who I can talk to if I have a problem.”  Survey findings were shared with stakeholders (students, staff, teachers and board). The Principal and school staff will continue to work diligently to improve school climate and student connectedness school-wide.  For the end of year (Spring 2019) student survey, our school research various types of evidence-based comprehensive student survey to administer in order to gather student input on school connectedness, school climate and safety that will inform all stakeholders, in the school’s program and support the ongoing school-wide improvement cycle.|2019-10-11||Met|2019
19647330137471|High Tech LA Middle|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: HTLA Middle School is in its second year of operation. At the end of the 2018-19 school year, HTLA MS distributed a survey asking questions related to safety and connectedness. A total of 62 students in grades 6-7 participated and completed the survey, a 89% student participation rate. SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES  The following are the student survey result findings: • 68% stated that adults at the school uphold the school’s values well/very well. • 34% stated that students at the school uphold the school’s values well/very well • 42% stated they are likely/very likely to tell an adult at school if they’re being bullied. • 52% agree/strongly agree that there is at least one adult at the school they can trust. • 61% agree/strongly agree the adults at HTLA Middle School “care about me.” • 66% agree/strongly agree “teachers in my classes encourage me to be considerate of other people’s feelings or perspectives. • 51% agree/strongly agree that adults at the school try to get to know students personally. • 62% agree/strongly agree that the adults at the school respect students. • 43% agree/strongly agree that students at the school care about each other. • 45% agree/strongly agree that students at the school are willing to go out of their way to help each other. • 45% agree/strongly agree “when I’m having a problem, a student will help me.” • 31% agree/strongly agree that students at school treat others with respect. • 39 % agree/strongly agree that students at the school help each other, even if they’re not friends. • 61% agree/strongly agree that everyone knows the rules.  Survey findings were shared with stakeholders (students, staff, teachers and board). The Principal and school staff will continue to work diligently to establish a positive climate, develop trust and connectedness with students, to ensure school safety. Additionally, the Principal will research a valid evidence-based student survey for the Spring 2020 student survey administration such as the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to ensure accurate survey reporting and adhering to the CDE requirements outlined in the LCAP and Priority 6 School Climate.|2019-10-11|CRITERIA: MET|Met|2019
37683380101204|High Tech Middle|6|High Tech Middle (HTM) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 6-8 at each middle school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTM middle school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High middle school indicated that HTM was at the 91st national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710123042|High Tech Middle Chula Vista|6|High Tech Middle Chula Vista (HTMCV) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 6-8 at each middle school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTMCV middle school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High middle school indicated that HTMCV was at the 97th national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37683380107573|High Tech Middle Media Arts|6|High Tech Middle Media Arts (HTMMA) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 6-8 at each middle school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTMMA middle school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High middle school indicated that HTMMA was at the 98th national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37764710138768|High Tech Middle Mesa|6|High Tech High (HTH) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 6-8 at each middle school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH middle school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized.|2019-06-20|These responses represent the existing HTH schools. High Tech Middle Mesa opened as a new school for the 2019/20 school year. For this reason, there is no 2018/19 data to report.|Met|2019
37764710119271|High Tech Middle North County|6|High Tech High (HTH) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 6-8 at each middle school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH middle school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High middle school indicated that HTMNC was at the 92nd national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
34765050113878|Higher Learning Academy|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive culture of trust and respect among staff members, where Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
33669930127142|Highland Academy|6|Highland Academy believes that a positive school climate is crucial to success.  Priorities for Highland Academy include cultivating safety, promoting a supportive academic, disciplinary, and physical environment, and encouraging respectful relationships throughout campus.  Data gathered via a survey given to our stakeholders indicate that over 90% of our families feel  "Extremely Comfortable" or "Somewhat Comfortable" with the current state of our school climate.  The Highland Academy Board and administration understand that school climate is also fluid and constantly in flux, hence keeping an open line of communication with stakeholders remains a priority and adjustments will be made as needed.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
34765050130757|Highlands Community Charter|6|Increased participation in school advisory councils (ELAC, CAC, etc.) by community members, community organizations, and students as verified by sign-in sheets-1,026 students participated Total # of Members of Student Advisory Committees- 30, an increase from 21 the prior year.  % of long-term students participating in service learning-Baseline: 29% 17-18: 42%  Total # of Members of Student Advisory Committees-Baseline: 21 17-18: 30  Suspension Rate-Baseline: 0% 17-18: 0.07%  # of students who identify at least one clear goal in survey-Baseline: 99% 17-18: 100%  Weighted schoolwide average grade point average-Baseline: 3.56 17-18: 3.44  High School Graduation Rate of Long-Term Students-Baseline: 40% 17-18: 41%  % of non-exempt students who gain and maintain employment-Baseline: 56.8% 17-18: 62%  College / Postsecondary Enrollment Rate-Baseline: 11.3% 17-18: 19%  % of alumni surveyed indicating continued learning-Baseline: 78% 17-18: 79%  One barrier is the graduation rate. Due to our students being 22 years of age and over, they face many demands and barriers that other students may not. Many of our students are parents and need an income to support their children; they enroll and dis-enroll at very high rates. Our students also come to Highlands with credit deficiency, low literacy, and digital literacy levels, and face significant challenges getting up to grade-level proficiency. They may have all of their elective credits but require core classes such as math and English. We have implemented reading specialists', tutors and trained our paraeducators in literacy development. We have hired Navigators to help students work through barriers, transportation assistance, providing childcare for parents with small children, summer school for school-age children so their parents can remain in school, and we have math para educators in all math and multi-subject classes. We have also have a focus on college entry for our students who wish to go to college. We have quarterly workshops in partnership with Los Rios Community Colleges, to assist students in understanding the transition to college and services available to them. This school year we have a renewed commitment to CTE and College and Career Readiness for our students. We have recently appointed a Director of Workforce Solutions to ensure our students are ready for the competitive workforce.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
49707146051759|Hillcrest Middle|6|Hillcrest:    The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to the 7th graders at Hillcrest Middle School in March of the 2018/19 school year.  Key data points from the survey indicate a very positive climate: 73% of students reported feeling safe or very safe at school, 80% indicated feeling connected to school, and 74% of students feel that there is at least one caring adult at school.  The CHKS data, combined with other data sources we are looking (California Dashboard, local survey data, local academic assessments) indicate that Hillcrest Middle has a very strong core program that enjoys a significant amount of parent engagement and support.  The data also tells us that when disaggregating our results, we have student groups (Students with Disability(ies), Socioeconomically Disadvantaged, Hispanic) that are performing below grade level, are absent more often, and experience more school discipline.  To work toward continuous improvement, we will address these students using a Multitiered System of Supports framework and focus on early identification and developing a menu of best practice Tier II targeted interventions.  This framework will be represented in our Board Vision, Mission, Goal, and Activity statements, in our Single School Plans, and in our LCAP plan|2019-11-14||Met|2019
41689080000000|Hillsborough City Elementary|6|The HCSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 7th grade students in the spring of 2018. Both grade levels had high participation rates with 77% of 5th graders and 78% of 7th graders participating. 97% of fifth graders reported high or moderate levels of school connectedness and 99% of seventh graders reported high or moderate school connectedness. We attribute this to our small class sizes and very small student: staff ratio, along with school social/emotional programs and supports. 72% of fifth graders report feeling safe at school all or most of the time and 83% of seventh graders report the same. All information from the CHKS survey has been shared with school site administrators and is shared with the district-wide SEL team. The information gathered from this survey helps to provide a bird's eye view of school climate and culture, but the HCSD is looking at opportunities to gather helpful survey data from additional student groups and identify specific groups of students, or individuals, who may need additional support. The HCSD will administer the CHKS survey again in winter or spring of 2020 to gather additional comparison data. The HCSD may also administer or develop other SEL surveys to gain additional data to help inform decision making.|2019-10-16|This item was presented at the October 16, 2019 regularly scheduled meeting of the Hillsborough City School District Board of Trustees. https://hillsborough.agendaonline.net/public/Meeting.aspx?AgencyID=28&MeetingID=74842&AgencyTypeID=1&IsArchived=False|Met|2019
24656980000000|Hilmar Unified|6|HUSD administers the CHKS every year at the 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grades and also to all students in Alternative Schools programs. The following are the student results: 5th grade: CHKS "school connectedness" 68%, "caring adult at school" 73%, "feel part of the school" 66% 7th grade: CHKS "school connectedness" 68%, "caring adult at school" 72%, "feel part of the school" 66% 9th grade: CHKS "school connectedness" 60%, "caring adult at school" 58%, "feel part of the school" 66% 11th grade: CHKS "school connectedness" 45%, "caring adult at school" 59%, "feel part of the school" 52% LCAP Student surveys are administered to all students in grades 5 through 12. The following are the results: 5th grade: Students reported high levels of feeling "welcome at school" 81%, "teachers and staff care about my well-being" 75% 6th-8th grades: Students reported high levels of feeling "welcome at school" 91%, "teachers and staff care about my well-being" 87% 9th-12th grades: Students reported high levels of feeling "welcome at school" 89%, "teachers and staff care about my well-being" 84% These results and discussion with students at each school site indicate that students continue to feel safe and connected to their schools. Since the the LCAP and CHKS surveys are anonymous, and therefore other data was gathered to determine if there was a difference among student groups.  HUSD is developing strategies to address this student group data.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
35674700000000|Hollister|6||||Not Met|2019
35674700127688|Hollister Prep|6|HPS measures school climate through the Panorama SEL Student survey.  It is administered three times per year for all students grades 3 - 8 with between 90 and 100% participation rates.  The main focus areas are students' social awareness (understanding and responding to the feelings of others), grit (the ability to set and achieve goals), self efficacy (students belief in their academic achievement), and emotional regulation (how well they can manage their own emotions). Based on the initial results in the Fall of 2018, the Educational Leadership Team (ELT) decided to focus on the self efficacy and emotional regulation of the 3rd - 5th grades, with special attention paid to the discrepancies in the EL / EO / RFEP populations.   The action plan included implementing weekly community meetings in each classroom using the curriculum Paths which focuses on emotional awareness in oneself and others, and tools for managing goals and feelings.  The meetings were monitored by administrators with ongoing training provided to all staff.   By the spring, the ELT was able to note an 11% increase in 3rd - 5th grade self efficacy and 5% increase in 3rd - 5th grade Emotional Regulation.  Most notably, in the subgroup of EL students, there was a significant decrease in discrepancy between EL's, EO's, and RFEP students.  Beginning the year, the RFEP students were scoring significantly higher than EL and EO students in the area of self efficacy, by approximately 15%. By the spring, all subgroups had increased, and the discrepancy was reduced to less than 5% between all subgroups.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
37683386117279|Holly Drive Leadership Academy|6|HDLA sent out a survey last year to find out about our stakeholders feelings regarding school climate and conditions,  The results were positive and we had about a 90% satisfaction rate.  This year we hope to get 100% of the surveys back so we can ensure everyone we serve have an opportunity to be heard.|2019-09-04||Met|2019
13631490000000|Holtville Unified|6|In the school year, 2018 -19 Holtville Unified School District administered Their LCAP survey to all students in grades 3-12; administrative staff reviewed the results as well as reviewed the Healthy Kids Survey that was also administered the same year.   Grades 3 through 12th, were administered the District’s LCAP Survey. The results were interesting because across all grade levels and all schools the results were the same.  On average 80 percent of our students reported that they felt the schools were kept up and were in good shape. They felt safe and are satisfied with the respect they receive from their teachers.  Most students reported participating in co-curricular/extra-curricular programs and felt strong about what they were learning, how the teacher was doing, and the amount of respect shown to everyone. Every group gave the planning team a lot of ideas of classes and courses to offer, those lists are currently being reviewed.  One area in the LCAP Survey did go against the rest.  The Holtville Unified School District LCAP Survey showed that more students than not reported being bullied and teased. This was a surprise because students reported feeling safe and yet they are reporting they get bullied and teased. We were able to validate this issue when we looked at the Healthy Kids Survey that was given the same year. The results were just like the LCAP survey. The same pattern for all questions was there but again the bullied and teasing was higher on average than all the others.  We continue to fight the Drug and alcohol battle and were happy to see that even these numbers were low.  The school's counselors with the help of many partnerships, bring in experts to talk to students. Programs funded through partnerships like the Imperial County Office of Education support our drug and alcohol education in a positive way.  This school year the district has adopted a new discipline model. On August 19th, 2019 the program started at all six of our campuses. Giving teachers the tools to better manage their classrooms, allowing all parties, through teamwork, to better address the issue of being bullied and teased. The program has offered our staff education, resources, and tools to deal with issues like teasing and bullying. The program supports teachers through administrator support and classroom management. The goal this year is to continue the fight against drug and alcohol abuse, but also, reducing and eliminating all bullying and teasing.|2019-10-21|Holtville Unified School District is a small district located in a very supportive community. Through the efforts of all our stakeholders, we have experienced very positive survey results. We know and see areas that need improvement, and will address all of them, but for now, to only see two areas of real concern is a statement about that support, because we can't do it alone.|Met|2019
04615316112585|HomeTech Charter|6|HomeTech Charter received the Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) Grant in 2017 and included in HomeTech’s MTSS Framework is the Positive Behavior Intervention System (PBIS) which is an evidence-based tracking system.  Due to the devastating November 8, 2018 Camp Fire and the displacement of the school and the majority of HomeTech families, the data is not representative and Healthy Kid’s Survey was not administered during the 2018-2019 school year.  The Healthy Kid’s Survey provides a more structured tool and process to meet the requirements for this priority.  The Healthy Kid’s Survey will be administered during the 2019-2020 school year.  A survey was given to our students (grades K-12) and parents during the 2015 school year. The following notes were shared with our stakeholders.   Student Survey Notes  • Being successful here – there was only one person who said no. (Many students must not have felt successful at previous schools)  • My teachers are accessible for questions and concerns. (At other schools, teachers are not as available)  • Some students don’t access aeries on a regular basis. Staff discussed that elementary students don’t get on aeries  • My teachers have a strong knowledge of the curriculum. (No disagreements) •  I feel safe at HomeTech – (100%)  • The website is useful and helpful (perhaps website is underutilized). Maybe we could add some mobile links  • Classes on campus help me  • Counseling services- 34 don’t know  • Interactions with Teachers in general- awesome  • Support staff- we have great ones  • I feel welcome and respected at HTC (Danielle has a great warm welcoming smile that greets the kids)  • Success class- perhaps reword the question- that it exists and is available. Some students don’t use the success classes.  • Academic success with success class data  • Strike 2? Maybe they need to be required to go to success classes.   Parent Survey Notes  • My student’s teachers are accessible for questions and concerns (Huge for parents to feel like they can contact their kids teachers).  • The number of parents using aeries (Impressed by how many parents are using it).  • Hometech is helping with career options (there were a lot of I don’t knows. They were most likely elementary. Maybe we have a different survey for elementary and secondary students).  • I feel encouraged and supported by teachers and staff-(huge number agree)  • My student has access to a computer (Many DO!).  • Safe (Parents are sending kids because they feel that their kids are safe) • Majority of the comments are extremely positive.  • Positive perception that we are in constant communication- Teachers are accessible for questions and concerns.  • Success classes- 42 parents think their kids use it, however only 23 kids say they do. (Maybe have parents sign kids up for success)  • Comments- Many parents must have had their kids bounce around for so many reasons, yet they “fit” here at HTC. This is a big spot socially for these kids. They do|2019-10-14||Met|2019
42692110000000|Hope Elementary|6|During the 2018-19 year, Hope School District administered the CHKS to Grade 5 and 6th grade students, parents, and staff. For the 2017-18 year, 5th and 6th grade students took the test as well. By administering the survey to 5th and 6th grade and expanding to include parents and staff, we not only have more data, we were able to use cohort data to track any significant changes. Some of the notable concerning findings are: - Low scores (46% - 5th and 49% -6th) for Meaningful Participation in School.  - Scores of 70% (5th) and 72% (6th) for feeling that students are treated fairly when they break the rules - A difference in how staff perceives how students feel about caring relationships at schools. Staff reported at 100%, but 5th grade reported at 82% and 6th grade at 80% (parents reported at 99%).  Some of the positive findings are: - High level of reporting that students feel safe at school (93% for 5th and 91% for 6th) - Low levels reported for marijauna (0% at 5th and 1% at 6th), Cigarettes (0% at 5th, 1% at 6th), and E-cigarettes (1% at 5th and 1% at 6th).  - No students (0) reported that they felt that their teachers and other grown-ups at school never cared about them.   This information will continue to be used in the school climate/Socio-emotional learning focus of the district. Specific and explicit instruction of Emotional Skills and Competencies, and Social and Interpersonal Skills and Competencies was implemented this year. Teachers worked in grade levels to develop activities to to this. Class meetings were implemented in order to provide a forum for students to feel connected, heard, and empowered to solve problems.   These results will be considered when deciding training for the 2019-20 year, the data collected in data team meetings, parent education topics, and focus areas for the strategic plan.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
54719440000000|Hope Elementary|6|The Hope Elementary School District utilizes local parent, staff, and student surveys as the principle school climate indicator to evaluate the climate for learning at our school. Per the Healthy Kids Survey, we attempt to measure responses to questions about: • Supports available to students to excel in school • The availability of caring adults at school • High expectations of adults at the school • What structures are available to connect students to school • Parent involvement at the school, and • Academic motivation.  Responses are overwhelmingly “high” in all of these areas with specific suggestions for improvements that have been included in our LCAP. These include after-school tutoring and additional educational field trips to help connect classroom learning with real-world applications. The Healthy Kids survey, added in 2018-19, reflects positive feedback on each of these priorities. All stakeholders report that Hope School provides a safe, welcoming school climate for teaching and learning. The high number of interdistrict transfers into our school, per parent surveys, is a direct result of that positive school climate.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
49707630000000|Horicon Elementary|6|Parent and Student School Climate Survey, given annually, showed that 23 surveys were returned, representing 45% of our school families. Parents and students feeling safe at school showed more than 95.65% agree or strongly agree that Horicon School is a safe place for their child.         The volunteer log was created and monitored.  27 volunteers worked steadily throughout the school year with students and staff on the campus in 2018/19.  Horicon tracked parent involvement at school with a parent volunteer log. 21 volunteers worked steadily throughout the school year with students and staff on the campus in 2017/18, for an average of 1.56 days per week.|2019-08-08||Met|2019
31669513130168|Horizon Charter|6|A climate survey is administered annually. Input regarding the key findings are determined, and collaborative feedback is both encouraged and received by school administration.  Of the students who participated in the survey the following ethnicities were identified: 1% American Indian or Alaskan Native, 10% Asian, 6% Black or African-American, 13% Hispanic or Latino/a, 1% Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, 62% White and 8% preferred not to answer. Key findings from the Middle and High School student survey indicated three main areas of strength: 1) Teacher Availability and Encouragement 2) Curriculum and School Resources, Books, and Materials, and 3) Technology resources and availability. 87% of students surveyed reported that they feel safe at Horizon Charter School. On the Fall 2018 Dashboard, there was a performance gap identified in the area of chronic absenteeism that affected our Black/African-American student population as well as our FY/Homeless. We were able to compare our Black/African-American student group results vs. the All student group. Students had the following options to select from when answering the survey questions: strongly agree, agree, neutral, disagree, strongly disagree and N/A. 14% of Black/African-American surveyed students do not feel the grades they receive are an accurate reflection of their ability and effort as opposed to 9% of All students. Another key finding to be noted is that 100% of all Black/African-American students reported access to technology resources such as a computer and internet access vs. 96% of All students. This demonstrates growth in support to our Black/African-American student population while also demonstrating that we have a small percentage of students who still report a need for technology access and availability. The last key finding in relationship to our Black/African-American student survey results is that 72% of our Black/African-American vs. 62% of All students reported that they have discussed their academic goals with their teachers and counselors. These findings demonstrate that while there is additional support and growth necessary in working to ensure that all students have developed academic goals. Black/African-American students are reporting increased support in this area vs. the “All” student group. To address the performance gap in the area of chronic absenteeism for our Black/African American students we have identified the following LCAP action steps: Goal 3.18- Analyze data to create specific school initiatives targeted at reducing the chronic absenteeism rate for African American students. These action steps shall include: increased outreach and communication with families and students, celebrating successes, and early attendance intervention.|2019-10-24|Key findings from the Elementary School Survey indicate several areas of strength: 1) Teachers encourage students to do their best and believe they can do well in school, 2) Parents work with students to make learning goals together, 3) Students have access to technology and enjoy their choices at Horizon, 4) Students feel safe and want to attend Horizon next school year. 100% of those who participated in the elementary survey reported that they would like to go to Horizon Charter School next year. 11% of surveyed students reported that they had not yet worked with their teacher to develop learning goals. To address this area for growth the school is working with teaching and administrative staff to write AIM statements for their students where they will work with parents and students on regular goal setting and progress monitoring.|Met|2019
47703590000000|Hornbrook Elementary|6|School Climate Student Survey Results – March 2019 Combined results from Grades 1-8 show that: • 94% of our students report that their principal & teachers want every student to learn • 90% report that they are learning new things that will help them • 62% perceive that students treat adults with respect • 72% report they are treated fairly • 94% report that their teacher(s) wants them to do their best • 88% of our students report that their teacher helps them learn things they will need in the future • 90% report that their teacher uses different activities to help them learn • 86% perceive the school as safe and clean • 94% of students report that the school recognizes and rewards students for positive choices and behaviors • 86% report they feel safe at school *results taken from Survey Monkey “Student Climate Survey” March 2019. * Student group reporting: Student group graphs were presented to the board on April 10, 2019   Our district’s focus is to ensure students feel safe and connected at school. In response to the results we have made and will continue to make, revisions, decisions, and actions. We will reword some questions to provide better understanding of the question we are asking. We are seeking to increase student engagement with the school; and students' respect towards adults.  Through implementation of PBIS Tier 1 and the beginning stages of Tier 2, we are seeing an increase in survey results for 1) students being recognized and rewarded for positive choices and behaviors; 2) students perceive the school is safe and clean; 3) students feel their teacher wants them to do their best. We will continue to implement PBIS and trauma informed practices to improve in student engagement and respect towards adults.|2019-04-10||Met|2019
54719510000000|Hot Springs Elementary|6|Hot Springs uses a local survey for parents and students that covers the required areas and local needs. The surveys are completed anonymously for parents and students. The result are compiled and reported to staff, parents, community and school board. The last survey showed that 94% felt that the staff expected students to work hard and gave the students extra help as needed. All but one parent agreed that the school promotes academic success for all students. One hundred percent of the parents agreed that the school staff explains school rules effectively to students and parents. All but one parents agreed that the school keeps them well informed of school activities. As a result we added a school monthly calendar that goes home to each parent with a copy of the monthly lunch menu to be sure we reach every single parent. The majority of parents felt that the school does a good job welcoming input and contributions from parents. One hundred percent of parents felt that the school is a safe place for all students. All but one parent felt that the school staff responded quickly to parent phone calls and messages. All parents felt that the school gives their student opportunities to participate in class and gives them an opportunity to make a difference by helping others in the school and community. Parents felt that the school is clean and well maintained. All parents felt that the staff really cares about the each student. The school staff and school board work to take a proactive approach to reaching every parent and listening to their concerns in an effort to improve the instructional program and school climate. It is the intention to reach even the one parent who has a concern and address ways to improve.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37680230124321|Howard Gardner Community Charter|6|Findings Reported:   PARTICIPATION RATE: Howard Gardner Community School administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 6-7. A total of 12 students in grade 6 participated and completed the survey, a 44% student participation rate; and 27 students in grade 7, a 44% participation rate.  SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings:  2018-19: 44% (27 students in grade 7) Interpret with caution. • 67% stated that there is a teacher or some other adult who really “cares about me.” • 72% agree that there is a teacher or some other adult who notices when “I’m not there.” • 80% agree that there is a teacher or some other adult who believes “that I will be a success.” • 72% Agree/Strongly Agree “I am happy to be at this school.  • 60% Agree/Strongly Agree, “I feel like I am part of this school. • 75% Agree/Strongly Agree, “I feel safe at my school.”  2018-19: 44% (12 students in grade 6) Interpret with caution. • 92% stated that there is a teacher or some other adult who really “cares about me.” • 83% agree that there is a teacher or some other adult who makes an effort to get to know you (the student). • 92% agree teachers treat students fairly at school.  • 58% Agree/Strongly Agree “I am happy to be at this school.  • 72% Agree/Strongly Agree, “I feel like I am part of this school. • 75% Agree/Strongly Agree, “I feel safe at my school.”   Our school will utilize the results of the CHKS to improve schoolwide support services, school climate, student decision-making, and the implementation of a Multi-tiered System of Supports.  Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rates and expanding the student survey to include grade 5, on the CHKS for the Spring 2019 administration as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
28662580000000|Howell Mountain Elementary|6|DATA:   64.9 % of students believe adults at HMS value students who care about others, students who do well academically 63.1% of students feel good about themselves when they are doing well in school and hanging with friends.  71.9 % of students believe their school is kept clean. 68.9% of students believe there are clear rules and consequences for student behavior. 85.7% of students believe that their teachers give them a lot of encouragement. 92.8% of students believe their teachers help them to improve when they do poorly on an assignment.  74.2% of students believe that most students in their school are well-behaved.  81.8% of students believe that most students in their school help each other when asked.  89.1% of students believe that teachers at HMS treat students with respect.  75% of students believe that they are easily able to work out disagreements with other students. MEANING: While students feel safe and connected at HMS, some students report being teased. USE: HMS will put effort into revising Best Behavior Policies to ensure discipline and consequences are clear and consistent across the board. With this improvement, student perception in this area will increase.|1919-10-09|HMS implemented a School Climate Survey. Students and staff reviewed the results and identified areas of concern. The area of concern was in consistent school discipline procedures.|Met|2019
56724620000000|Hueneme Elementary|6|The Hueneme Elementary School District (HESD) administers a local climate survey every year in order to obtain a valid measure of perception of school safety and connectedness. The results are shared with all key stakeholders including our local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting. In the Spring of 2019, HESD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades five and seven. The following key indicators of school climate were measured: * School Engagement and Supports * School Safety * School Disciplinary Environment * Substance Use * Mental Health  The results of the 2018-2019 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) show that 74% of fifth grade students reported "Yes, most of the time" or "Yes, all of the time" on questions pertaining to school connectedness (down 4% from 2017-2018). An average of 82% of grade five students reported feeling safe of school (down 2% from 2017-2018). Our district response rate was 90% with 795 of our 881 grade five students participating in the survey.  In grade seven, 60% of the students taking the survey indicated "Agree" or "Strongly agree" on questions pertaining to school connectedness (down 2% from 2017-2018). 57% of respondents reported that they perceive their school site as "Very safe" or "Safe" (up 2% from 2017-2018). Both of our middle schools participated in the survey with an average response rate of 94% (up 3% from 2017-2018).  The HESD District School Climate Report Card is based on responses from our middle school students to the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS): * School Climate Index (SCI) Score: 280 (scores range from 100-500, with high scores representing more positive school climates; higher supports and engagement; and lower levels of violence and substance use at school) * SCI State Percentile: 36% (compared to other schools in the state) * SCI Similar Schools Percentile: 46% (compared to other schools in the state with similar demographic characteristics)   For continuous improvement purposes, HESD will continue the following actions in response to our results on the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS): * Implementation of the California MTSS Framework - California's Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) is a comprehensive framework that aligns academic, behavioral, and social-emotional learning in a fully integrated system of support for the benefit of all students. HESD will build unique MTSS models at each of our school sites to create needed systematic change through intentional design and redesign of services and supports that identify and match to the needs of all students.  Our focus will be inclusive academic, behavioral and social-emotional instruction. Specific actions include: * Identifying a comprehensive assessment system (to include pre-screening) * Creating and utilizing collaborative teams  * Providing universal supports * Providing supplemental and intensified supports|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19646260000000|Hughes-Elizabeth Lakes Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the spring of 2018 to inform the 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 school years. The survey is administered every two years and will be administered in the spring of 2020. The surveys were taken by all stakeholders within the district community (families and parents, teachers, staff, and students). The following is a summary of the parents’ survey. 42% of respondents agree the district/school welcomes parents’ input and contributions. 83% of respondents feel welcome to participate at the district/school. 75% feel school/district staff treat parents with respect. 42% feel parent concerns are taken seriously. 83% feel staff are helpful to parents. 75% agree the school/district promotes academic success for all students. 75% agree the learning environment is supportive and inviting. 50% agree the school/district provides high-quality expectations. 33% agree the school/district has teachers how to go out of their way to help students. 83% agree the school/district has adults that really care about students. 75% agree the school/district has high expectations for all students. 84% agree the school/district is a safe place for students. 16% agree the school/district provides programs for students’ talents, gifts, or special needs. 17% agree the school/district provides counseling and supports for students with social or emotional needs. 75% agree the school/district provides opportunities for meaningful student participation. 84% agree the school/district provides opportunities for classroom participation. 66% agree the school/district treats all student with respect. 91% agree the school/district encourages a student to care about how others feel. 100% of the respondents agree that gang activity and fights are not a problem. 83% agree that the school/district clearly communicates the consequences of breaking rules. The following is a summary of the student survey 62% of students agree the adults at school have high expectations for all students. 28% of students feel a high connectedness to the school. 77% of students feel safe at school. 87% of student in grade 4 feel they are treated with respect at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50755490000000|Hughson Unified|6|Students took the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in January 2019.  The results were reported at the June 2019 Board meeting and the full report can be found on the HUSD website http://www.hughson.k12.ca.us/information/california_healthy_kids_survey_information.  The survey found an overall area of strength was the majority of students in each grade span felt very safe or safe at school.  An overall area for growth was the survey found almost a third of students in each grade span experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness.  While physical safety continues to be a top priority of the district, this extends as well into mental health.  It has been a goal of HUSD to improve mental health support K-12.  HUSD was notified over the summer of 2019 that it was rewarded a grant as part of a consortium in Stanislaus County.  The grant will specifically; help provide clinicians for mental health at Ross Middle School, Hughson High and Billy Joe Dickens High; provide trauma first aid training to staff; and further enhance programs that are already in place such as PBIS, Suicide Prevention and Life of a Husky.|2019-10-08|Additionally, HUSD has been closely monitoring its behavior incidents and suspension rates.  In 2017, we received a three year grant to implement Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) throughout the district.  All sites have been trained and implemented both Tier I and Tier II interventions.  The 2019-2020 school year is our third year of training for Tier III interventions which will be implemented in 2020-2021.  As a result behavior incidents and suspension rates have declined at all sites.|Met|2019
12101240000000|Humboldt County Office of Education|6|HCOE CCS utilizes surveys to measure school climate. HCOE CCS serves both court and community school students.New students enroll each week and we serve a highly mobile population.  HCOE CCS administers the CHKS survey every is administered to students every two years. Families are surveyed twice a year at family nights, which have questions from the CHKS. HCOE staff and teachers are surveyed once a year utilizing a local survey. The student surveys measures perception of school safety, health, school connectedness, alcohol and other drug use, and tobacco use.  Our surveys show that the majority of our students feel connected to staff  and have a trusting relationships at school with staff. CCS staff meet individually with each new incoming student and their family as they are enrolled to minimize and address barriers to their education. Students enrolled in court schools also have individual intake meetings to review school credits and address barriers. Areas of concern for CCS students continue to be high drug use, depression, tobacco use and motivation for school. We continue to utilize our AOD Counselor for weekly classroom education and individual student meetings to address these concerns and issues with our students. We have hired a second student assistance counselor this year to support the students with addressing school motivation and depression. CCS has also adopted two new social/emotional curriculum programs which are utilized in all programs, to support student's needs. HCOE CCS has also brought back more hands-on learning opportunities to support students motivation in school.  Staff surveys show that teachers and staff  feel connected to their students and co-workers. CCS continues to provide monthly training and staff collaboration days to support the implementation of  the new social-emotional curriculum and trauma-informed practices. The surveys highlighted that staff want more team-building activities which have now been implemented at staff meetings.   Parent surveys are given twice a year at family nights. Anonymous paper surveys are given to address internet access barriers. Surveys show that family feel connected to CCS staff an programs. Parent surveys noted that modes of communication could be improved. CCS now utilizes a texting app to communicate with parents and families. There has been good feedback from parents in regards to the new mode of communication.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
10101080111682|Hume Lake Charter|6|In a recent survey, conducted in February 2019, parents, teachers, and students reported on key issues involving the school.  Of the 20 surveys sent out to the 3rd - 6th grade students, 20 reported back.  Of the 32 surveys sent out to 7th - 12th grade students, 32 reported back. Of the 56 surveys sent out to parents, 33 reported back.  Of the 15 surveys sent out to the teachers and instructional staff, 10 reported back.  The results of each survey were shared with and approved by the local governing board during a regularly scheduled meeting on March 11, 2019.  Student subgroups cannot be disaggregated for further study of survey results due to the small size of the classes.  The largest single class in the school, of the grade levels survey, had only 10 students, so the students were groups by 3rd - 6th and 7th - 12th, in order to protect student privacy. Students in the 3rd - 6th grade reported the following: "The teachers and staff at Hume lake Charter School care about me." 19 out of 20 students responded with agree or strongly agree.  These same students also reported the following: "Hume Lake Charter School feels safe, people here are respectful to each other."  16 out of 20 reported that they agree or strongly agree with this statement. The 7th - 12th grade students responded to the following: "The teachers and staff at HLCS care about me.  They communicate respect to me and to each other.  29 out of 32 of the 7th - 12th grade students agree or strongly agree with the statement. "I feel safe at school.  The teachers and staff care about me." About 75% of the 7th - 12th grade students agreed or strongly agreed with this statement. "The school has high academic expectations of me." About 75% of the 7th - 12th grade students agreed or strongly agreed with this statement.   Some of the primary concerns voiced by parents and students focused on size of certain facilities, adequate funding, and increased technology along with on-line course issues.  As a result of these responses and the results of our WASC self-study and ongoing goals, 3 continuing or on-going areas of need were identified. First, adequate facilities for meeting our growing student population is of great need.  We were able to implement creative reorganizing going in to the 19-20 school year, but the longevity of our current facilities or the pursuit of new facilities is still to be determined.  Second, adequate funding was identified and in response HLCS submitted an application and was accepted for the REAP/SRSA grand through the Federal Government.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
39686270126755|Humphreys College Academy of Business, Law and Education|6|Humphreys College Academy of Business, Law, and Education engaged parents and students in a school climate survey during the spring term of 2019.  Students in grades 6-12 and their parents responded to a variety of questions regarding the climate and safety of the school.   The student and parent respondents identified many of the same strengths and areas for growth.  Both groups rated the feeling of safety on campus extremely high.  Both groups gave strong ratings to teachers on campus, both in terms of encouraging students and taking efforts to help students be more successful.  The student group identified adults working well together on campus as an additional area of strength.  The parent group and student group identified the school’s efforts to engage students in extracurricular activities as one possible area of growth.   ABLE Charter is very proud of the efforts of our faculty and staff in making parents and students feel safe on campus.  The high safety ratings combined with strong teacher ratings hints towards the role teachers play not just in helping students succeed, but also in making students and families feel safe.  We attribute the lower scores in encouraging students to participate in extracurricular activities in part to a lack of competitive sports teams at the middle school level.  ABLE has since brought on additional middle school physical education teachers who are passionate about promoting health and athletics within our middle grades.  In coordination with the school Athletic Director, we are developing a competitive middle school sports program.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
30665300000000|Huntington Beach City Elementary|6|Overall 94.5% of students participated in the District Annual survey.  Students in grades 3-5 have a greater sense of student safety, school belonging, positive student-teacher relationships, and view school as a positive, welcoming place to learn.  Students in grades 6-8, although favorable, have lower sense of safety, belonging, positive teacher-student relationships, and school climate when compared to their grade 3-5 counterparts.  Challenges and opportunity for growth continue to focus on middle school students sense of belonging and safety due to the larger school populations.  Actions the LEA has taken to address this area of growth has been to hire middle school counselors to provide Tier I and Tier II interventions, continuing to partner with local agencies for referrals and implementation of social emotional learning modules, and increasing the number and hours of campus supervision to ensure students are safe and to decrease the adult to student ratio on middle school campuses.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
30665480000000|Huntington Beach Union High|6|The Huntington Beach Union High School District is committed to providing a safe and supportive environment that promotes engagement and school connectedness. HBUHSD conducted a student survey in August/September 2019 to collect information on students' perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The online survey was administered to students in grades 9-12 and was available in Spanish and Vietnamese as well. The District received 4,914 responses. The findings include the following: 94% believe their school provides students with many opportunities to participate in extra-curricular activities. 89% strongly agree/agree that they feel safe at their school. 89% strongly agree/agree they are happy to be at their school. 92% strongly agree/agree that their teachers care about students and their learning. The data collected in this survey will be analyzed and included in the 2019-20 LCAP revision process. Additionally, the data will be further disaggregated and distributed to school sites for analysis in their continuous improvement processes.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
12628850000000|Hydesville Elementary|6|This measure addresses information regarding the school environment based on a local climate survey administered every other year on the topics of school safety and connectedness.    A survey was distributed to 4-8th grade students in October 2018.    1. 86% indicated that they agreed or strongly agreed they felt safe at school.  84% agreed or strongly agreed they felt connected to school.  74% of students reported that they are happy at HESD and 67% of students reported that they felt they were treated fairly. 2. This data will be followed and compared to student perceptions in the upcoming year to ensure the percentage of students expressing feelings of safety and connectedness to school is maintained or improved. 3. LCAP Goal #2 includes programs and services to support a positive school climate and ensure students' social/emotional needs are addressed.  Resources to support these services include counseling, Second Step, and a variety of other programs and actions to build positive behavior and family engagement.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19646340120303|ICEF Inglewood Elementary Charter Academy|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF Inglewood Elementary Academy administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 200 students in grades 3-5 participated and completed the student survey, a 100% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the student survey findings: School Climate: • 61% stated that the energy at the school is very positive.  • 71% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 61% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 69% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 84% stated that when they feel like giving up their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 83% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 44% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 76% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: • 70% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness and school climate for all students, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The Principal will research whether to continue with the Panorama Student Survey or another evidence-based survey in order to effectively student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by Priority 3 Local Indicators.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19646340120311|ICEF Inglewood Middle Charter Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330117952|ICEF Innovation Los Angeles Charter|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF Innovation Los Angeles Charter School administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 108 students in grades 3-5 participated and completed the student survey, a 95% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  School Climate: • 65% stated that the energy at the school is very positive. • 64% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 55% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 64% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 75% stated that when they feel like giving up their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 80% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 45% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 64% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: • 56% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness, school climate for all students, on the student survey as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The Principal will research whether to continue with the Panorama Student Survey or another evidence-based survey in order to effectively student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by Priority 3 Local Indicators.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647336117048|ICEF View Park Preparatory Elementary|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF View Park Preparatory Charter School administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 201 students in grades 3-5 participated and completed the student survey, an 89% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the student survey findings: School Climate: • 50% stated that the energy at the school is very positive.  • 65% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 47% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 56% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 81% stated that when they feel like giving up their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 76% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 36% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 71% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: 64% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness, and school climate for all students, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The Principal will research whether to continue with the Panorama Student Survey or another evidence-based survey in order to effectively student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by the LCAP.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647330101196|ICEF View Park Preparatory High|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF View Park Preparatory Charter High School administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 353 students in grades 9-12 participated and completed the student survey, a 66% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the student survey findings: School Climate: • 28% stated that the energy at the school is very positive. • 32% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 13% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 28% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 45% stated that when they feel like giving up their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 56% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 44% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 56% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: • 34% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to significantly improve student connectedness and school climate for all students, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647336121081|ICEF View Park Preparatory Middle|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF View Park Preparatory Charter Middle School administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 242 students in grades 6-8 participated and completed the student survey, an 81% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the student survey findings: School Climate: • 35% stated that the energy at the school is very positive. • 49% stated that the physical space is very/somewhat pleasant.  • 46% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 26% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 39% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 64% stated that when they feel like giving up their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 73% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 50% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 59% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: • 46% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness and school climate for all students, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The Principal will research whether to continue with the Panorama Student Survey or another evidence-based survey in order to effectively student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by Priority 3 Local Indicators.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647330117937|ICEF Vista Elementary Academy|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF Vista Elementary Academy administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 159 students in grades 3-5 participated and completed the student survey, a 92% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings by category: School Climate: • 71% stated that the energy at the school is very positive.  • 88% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 59% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 69% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 83% stated that when they feel like giving up their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 88% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 48% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 76% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: • 84% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness and school climate for all students, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The Principal will research whether to continue with the Panorama Student Survey or another evidence-based survey in order to effectively student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by Priority 3 Local Indicators.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647330115287|ICEF Vista Middle Academy|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: ICEF Vista Middle Academy administered the Panorama Student Survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 192 students in grades 6-8 participated and completed the student survey, a 93% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the student survey findings: School Climate: • 58% stated that the energy at the school is very positive. • 57% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 32% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 46% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. School Rigorous Expectations: • 71% stated that when they feel like giving up, their teachers are extremely/quite likely to make them keep trying.  • 79% stated their teachers encourage them a tremendous amount/quite a bit.  School Safety: • 68% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 81% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.  School Teacher-Student Relationships: • 41% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year.  The Principal and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness and school climate for all students, as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The Principal will research whether to continue with the Panorama Student Survey or another evidence-based survey in order to effectively student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by Priority 3 Local Indicators.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
43696176048045|Ida Jew Academies|6|Results of the Surveys indicate that 67% of fifth graders report a high level of caring relationships with an adult at school, and 70% report a high level of school connectedness. 64% of seventh grade students report caring relationships with a teacher or other adults, and 70% report a high level of school connectedness, 78% indicated that adults have high expectations. 73% of 7th graders indicated that all students were treated with respect. Parents (79%) believe that the school treats all students with respect.   A high percentage of Parents (85%) also responded that the school has adults that really care about students, and staff (96%) report that school is a safe and supportive environment for students. 78% of staff feel it a supportive and inviting place to work. Parents (79%) feel that school allows parent input and welcomes parent contributions, but only 53% agree that the school actively seeks parent input in making important decisions. Students (69% of 7th graders) agree that their parents are involved in school.  Identified areas for growth include increasing opportunities for meaningful participation for parents and students (47% 5th grade, 25% 7th grade), student mental health as an issue, staff (85%) indicate they need more professional development in meeting the social-emotional needs of students. Students, 22% 7th graders report they have experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness, and 18% of 7th graders report seriously considering suicide in the last twelve months. Staff (31% mild, 50% moderate) also indicate student depression/mental health is a problem.   Bullying or harassment among students is another area identified for improvement. Close to 40% of 7th grade and 40% of 5th grade students report being verbally harassed in some form. Parents (13%) and school staff (52%) indicate bullying is a problem. Only 49% of 7th graders reported an anti-bullying climate at school. In regards to school facilities, staff and students believe there is work to be done in improving “clean and well-maintained facilities,” (84% parents, 52% Staff, and 64% of 5th grade, 39% 7th grade).  Actions taken to address identified needs include hiring additional mental health counselors, working with outside counseling agencies, providing staff development on mental health support, providing anti-bullying rallies and assemblies, having campus supervisors, and student advisor support students. Family Case managers will also be working with identified students families to offer outreach support to connect them to additional services if needed outside the school. These data will be reviewed with stakeholders during the annual LCAP revision, and action items will be identified to improve outcomes for students.|2019-11-13|The California Healthy Kids (CHKS), School Climate, and Parent Climate Surveys were administered in fall 2018. The CHKS and Staff survey have been given annually over the last four years. This was the first year the parent survey was conducted. A large percentage of students (67% 5th graders, 79% 7th graders) twenty-seven school staff and parents (33%, some with multiple students) responded to the surveys.  A representative sample of the school completed the surveys. The CHKS was completed by:  Hispanic 86%, Asian 1%, Pacific-Islander 1 %, and mixed races 96%. The Parent Climate Survey, Hispanic 62%, Asian 2%, Filipino 3%, White 7%, African American 2%, Two or More Races/Ethnicities 17%, and 6% Declined to state.  For the Staff Climate Survey, Hispanic 52%, Asian/Pacific Islander 15%, White 11% and, Two or more races/ethnicities 22%.|Met|2019
36678760121343|iEmpire Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
37683380108548|Iftin Charter|6|In the past Iftin Charter School has not administered student surveys, although there have been informal conversations with student leadership and parents have questions on their survey relating to school climate. This year a student survey, The California Healthy Kids Survey will be given in grades 4-8 to help better understand the climate of the school and will result in areas that will be targeted for response. In addition, the staff survey will be enhanced to generate data on school safety, school connectedness and student/staff /family relationships. This data will be used as baseline information so that growth can be measured moving forward through the LCAP.  Some key take-aways from both formal and informal conversations with staff, students and parents, that are in alignment with LCAP goals and data reporting, are as follows: 1) Professional development/parent education continues to be an area of need; 2) More focus is needed in the area of parent outreach and support for all student populations;3) baseline data from the California Healthy Kids Survey or a similar survey will be established this year, but the students report that student feelings of connectedness is high, in part due to the nature of the school program, however they would like to have more of a voice in the selecting/development of activities and enrichment classes, so more strategies and emphasis will be put into developing program components to help students feel more connected to the school and their peers, and have a voice in the activities and events.  Final key ideas coming out of the discussions showed a need for full implementation of no-tolerance policies for bullying and harassment at all grade levels, and an increase in support services to ensure safety and appropriate levels of support for students and staff. New surveys will be given to students prior to January 30, 2020 and parent and community surveys will come out around March of 2020 with additional strategies implemented to increase parent participation.|2019-10-30|Although parent and family involvement is relatively high, and students feel safe and protected at school, the change in leadership over the past 4 years has had an impact on Iftin's ability to measure school climate from the student and staff perspective. With stable leadership now in place, student voice will now be considered as an additional source of input for school improvement and program enhancements.|Met|2019
45700290000000|Igo, Ono, Platina Union Elementary|6|Fourth through eighth grade students participated in an annual climate survey. Eighty-five percent of students reported feeling safe. This was the same as the previous previous year. Eighty-one percent of fourth through eighth grade students reported feeling a sense of connectedness. This was an increase of six percent from the previous year. The increase of students feeling safe and connected can be seen as a correlation of one hundred percent of teachers reporting the use of Capturing Kids Hearts strategies within his/her classroom. An action to continue improvement will be continuing to provide staff development in the area of Capturing Kids Hearts and Positive Behavior Intervention Support.|2019-06-24||Met|2019
19753090138297|iLead Agua Dulce|6|School climate represents an important lever for improving school safety, the quality of teaching and learning, and the strength of relationships. Therefore, iLEAD Agua Dulce administers the Gallup Student Poll annually to learners in grades 5-12. The Gallup Student Poll is a 24-question survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of students in grades five through 12. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success. iLEAD Agua Dulce met or exceeded U.S. Overall Scores in all four assessment categories.  Engagement Grandmean -iLEAD Agua Dulce  4.39 -U.S. Overall  3.85  Hope Grandmean -iLEAD Agua Dulce 4.35 -U.S. Overall 4.20  Entrepreneurial Aspiration Grandmean -iLEAD Agua Dulce 2.98 -U.S. Overall 2.42  Career/Financial Literacy Grandmean -iLEAD Agua Dulce 3.42 -U.S. Overall 3.28  Detailed results for the 2018-2019 Gallup Survey The first category assessed in the Gallup Poll is Engagement: The Involvement in and enthusiasm for school.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -At this school, I get to do what is best every day. -My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important. -I feel safe in this school. -I have a best friend at school. -In the last 7 days, someone has told me I have done good work at school. -In the last 7 days, I have learned something interesting at school. -The adults at my school care about me.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -None identified  The Gallup Poll also measures Hope: The Ideas and energy students have for the future.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a great future ahead of me. -I have many goals. -I can find many ways around problems. -I have a mentor who encourages my development. -I know I will find a good job in the future.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I can think of many ways to get good grades. -I know I will graduate from high school.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration measures how learners rate themselves on: The talent and energy for building business that survive, thrive, and employ others.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I will invent something that changes the world. -I am learning how to start and run a business.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have my own business now. -I plan to start my own business.  The last category in the Gallup Poll is Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a paying job now. -I am involved in at least one activity, such as a club, music, sports or volunteering. -I have a bank account with money in it.  Area of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I am learning how to save and spend money.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
19753090131987|iLEAD Hybrid|6|School climate represents an important lever for improving school safety, the quality of teaching and learning, and the strength of relationships. iLEAD Hybrid administers the Gallup Student Poll annually to learners in grades 5-12. The Gallup Student Poll is a 24-question survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of students in grades five through 12. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success. iLEAD Hybrid met or exceeded U.S. Overall Scores in one of the four assessment categories.  Engagement Grandmean -iLEAD Hybrid 3.75 -U.S. Overall 3.85  Hope Grandmean -iLEAD Hybrid 3.92 -U.S. Overall 4.20  Entrepreneurial Aspiration Grandmean -iLEAD Hybrid 2.89 -U.S. Overall 2.42  Career/Financial Literacy Grandmean -iLEAD Lancaster 2.66 -U.S. Overall 3.28  Detailed results for the 2018-2019 Gallup Survey  The first category assessed in the Gallup Poll is Engagement: The Involvement in and enthusiasm for school.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -At this school, I get to do what is best every day. -I feel safe in this school. -I have a best friend at school. -I have fun at school. -In the last 7 days, I have learned something interesting at school. -In the last 7 days, someone has told me I have done good work at school. -The adults at my school care about me.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall: -My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important. -I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.    The Gallup Poll also measures Hope: The Ideas and energy students have for the future.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I can think of many ways to get good grades. -I have many goals. -I know I will find a good job in the future.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall: -I can find many ways around problems. -I have a mentor who encourages my development. -I know I will graduate from high school. -I have a great future ahead of me.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration measures how learners rate themselves on: The talent and energy for building business that survive, thrive, and employ others.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I will invent something that changes the world. -I plan to start my own business. -I am learning how to start and run a business. -I have my own business now.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: None identified  The last category in the Gallup Poll is Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a paying job now. -I am learning how to save and spend money.  Area of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a bank account with money in it. -I am involved in at least one activity, such as a club, music, sports or volunteering.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19646670125559|iLEAD Lancaster Charter|6|School climate represents an important lever for improving school safety, the quality of teaching and learning, and the strength of relationships. iLEAD Lancaster administers the Gallup Student Poll annually to learners in grades 5-8. The Gallup Student Poll is a survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of students in grades five through 12. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success. iLEAD Lancaster met or exceeded U.S. Overall Scores in one of the four assessment categories.  Engagement Grandmean -iLEAD Lancaster 3.82 -U.S. Overall  3.85  Hope Grandmean -iLEAD Lancaster 3.99 -U.S. Overall 4.20  Entrepreneurial Aspiration Grandmean -iLEAD Lancaster 2.93 -U.S. Overall 2.42  Career/Financial Literacy Grandmean -iLEAD Lancaster 3.07 -U.S. Overall 3.28  Detailed results for the 2018-2019 Gallup Survey  The first category assessed in the Gallup Poll is Engagement: The Involvement in and enthusiasm for school.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -At this school, I get to do what is best every day. -My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important. -I have a best friend at school. -I have fun at school. -In the last 7 days, I have learned something interesting at school. -The adults at my school care about me.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall: -I feel safe in this school. -In the last 7 days, someone has told me I have done good work at school. -I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.    The Gallup Poll also measures Hope: The Ideas and energy students have for the future.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a mentor who encourages my development.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall: -I have many goals. -I can find many ways around problems. -I can think of many ways to get good grades. -I know I will graduate from high school. -I have a great future ahead of me. -I know I will find a good job in the future.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration measures how learners rate themselves on: The talent and energy for building business that survive, thrive, and employ others.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I will invent something that changes the world. -I plan to start my own business. -I am learning how to start and run a business. -I have my own business now.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: None identified  The last category in the Gallup Poll is Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a paying job now. -I am learning how to save and spend money.  Area of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a bank account with money in it. -I am involved in at least one activity, such as a club, music, sports or volunteering.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19753090136531|iLEAD Online|6|School climate represents an important lever for improving school safety, the quality of teaching and learning, and the strength of relationships. Therefore, iLEAD Online administers the Gallup Student Poll annually to learners in grades 5-12. The Gallup Student Poll is a 24-question survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of students in grades five through 12. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success. iLEAD Online met or exceeded U.S. Overall Scores in all four assessment categories.  Engagement Grandmean -iLEAD Online 3.85 -U.S. Overall 3.85  Hope Grandmean -iLEAD Online 4.30 -U.S. Overall 4.20  Entrepreneurial Aspiration Grandmean -iLEAD Online 2.56 -U.S. Overall 2.42  Career/Financial Literacy Grandmean -iLEAD Online 3.39 -U.S. Overall 3.28  Detailed results for the 2018-2019 Gallup Survey The first category assessed in the Gallup Poll is Engagement: The Involvement in and enthusiasm for school.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall in this category include: -At this school, I get to do what is best every day. -My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important. -I feel safe in this school. -In the last 7 days, someone has told me I have done good work at school. -The adults at my school care about me.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have fun at school. -I have a best friend at school. -I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.  The Gallup Poll also measures Hope: The Ideas and energy students have for the future.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall in this category include: -I have a great future ahead of me. -I have many goals. -I can find many ways around problems. -I have a mentor who encourages my development. -I know I will find a good job in the future. -I know I will graduate from high school.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I can think of many ways to get good grades.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration measures how learners rate themselves on: The talent and energy for building business that survive, thrive, and employ others.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall in this category include: -I will invent something that changes the world. -I plan to start my own business. -I am learning how to start and run a business.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have my own business now.  The last category in the Gallup Poll is Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall in this category include: -I have a paying job now. -I am learning how to save and spend money. -I am involved in at least one activity, such as a club, music, sports or volunteering.  Area of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall: None identified|2019-10-31||Met|2019
33103300125385|Imagine Schools, Riverside County|6|This report was generated on 03/25/19. Survey invitations sent: 182 Overall surveys completed: 177 Percent of completion: 97 % The report has been filtered for: All Respondents  Table of responses for Imagine Riverside­Coachella Campus sorted by Percent Agree Analysis % Respondents Total Overall Responses % Agree Strongly Agree Agree Disagree Strongly Disagree The student character survey is completed annually to gauge an overall perspective of the culture and student's feelings towards the school and safety.   Below are part of the questions administered in the survey: My classmates and I have opportunities to work together and give each other feedback. Even if my schoolwork is challenging, I can learn it through effort. I feel I have grown in character because of our school’s attention to character development. I have chances to brainstorm creative ideas and apply them to my work in class. In our class, we own up to our mistakes and help each other do better. I am learning to be a caring citizen by getting involved in projects that help my school or community. I feel safe at my school. I work with my teachers to set my own academic and character goals. In my class, I feel like I belong. My teachers help me connect what I am learning in class  Over 90% of the students agree that the statements above are true.    Students have a feeling of belonging in the school and feel safe on campus.    We also administer 1-2 questions monthly based on character pillar of the month.   Student responses are collected and used to gauge next steps and plans of activities within the school.    Discipline issues are handled immediately to prevent issues that may arise.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
01611920137646|Impact Academy of Arts & Technology|6|At IA, we administered surveys to collect both student and parent perceptions around school climate. In the high school, 60% of students and 74% of families responded favorably to questions around school safety and 26% of students and 62% of families around sense of belonging/school fit. In the middle grades, 68% of students and 81% of families responded favorably to questions around school safety and 43% of students and 71% of families around sense of belonging/school fit.  We partnered with PanoramaEd to conduct these surveys and were able to compare our survey results across a national benchmark on these school climate indicators. In looking at high schools with a similar FRL population in an urban setting, we found that we are in the 60th percentile on the topic of school safety.  In comparing our middle school with similar schools with a similar FRL population in an urban setting, we found that we are in the 99th percentile on the topic of school safety.   At IAHS, 77% of our students responded favorably about not being bullied online by a classmate, and 83% responded favorably about not having to worry about violence at the school. We are working on increasing data around student-teacher relationships and students’ perceptions around feeling treated in respectful ways by other students.  We are doing this through the strategic multi-year process of introducing and implementing a PBIS system in the high school and restorative justice circles and training for adults and students in the middle grades.   At IA Middle School, 84% of our students responded favorably about not being bullied online by a classmate, 76% responded favorably about not having to worry about violence at the school, and 51% responded favorably about feeling respected by other students.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
37683956040505|Imperial Beach Charter|6|Imperial Beach Charter School administers a local school climate and LCAP survey to all students in grades 3-8.  In addition, a parent version of the survey is also administered.  Lastly, a school culture survey is administered to all school staff.  In 2018-2019, 103 parent responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed.  367 student responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed. 25 staff responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed.   LCAP Culture Surveys indicate an average score as following on each survey: Students:  3.19 average, representing a slight decrease from 3.22 in 2018.  No significant differences exist for student groups. Parents:  3.422 average, with an increase from 3.35 in 2018. Staff:  3.667 average,  which is relatively flat from 3.6 in 2018.   Key learnings from the survey results include the following generalizations: LCAP survey data indicates, greater overall satisfaction on the part of parents,  with the greatest growth in the area of promoting academic success for all students.  Progress was also made on appealing and nutritious meals, yet this remains an area of improvement. LCAP student survey data average demonstrated a very slight decrease over a one year period.  However, significant progress has been made in the area of  students being made fun of, teased, or bullied.  This area has seen significant improvement each year over a three year period.  LCAP staff survey data indicates strengths in the areas of collegial support, professional development and unity of purpose.  Areas of improvement include collaboration and learning partnerships with students and families.        Through the culture surveys and LCAP input process, a need for building collective efficacy and teacher leadership was identified as a means of improving school culture. In addition, student connectedness and improvement of chronic absenteeism is a focus for IBCS in the 2019-2020 school year. LCAP action steps have been revised to reflect this focus.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
13101320000000|Imperial County Office of Education|6|Imperial County Office of Education- Alternative Education administered this student survey. A total of 190 students and 107 parents were surveyed. In relation to School Safety, 95% of students perceived the school as safe or very safe. 85% of students stated that the school has high expectations for them. 95% of students feel they have caring adult relationships at school. 34% of students surveyed state they currently use alcohol or drugs. 39% of students expressed they have experienced chronic sadness/ hopelessness in the past year. Additionally, 91% of parents surveyed stated that the school provides a quality education. 90% of parents stated that they feel welcomed at this school.|2019-10-14|These survey results are in alignment with our Local Control Accountability Plan. Staff will continue to review the survey data to shape programs and services that are aligned with the school community needs. ICOE is committed to continue to partner together and with outside agencies (i.e. Imperial County Behavioral Health, Imperial County Department of Social Services, Imperial County Probation) to provide the necessary supports to assist families in getting stronger, both academically and social-emotionally.|Met|2019
13101320134379|Imperial Pathways Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
13631640000000|Imperial Unified|6|Students (244) at both elementary schools were administered a student survey.  64.4% of the students reported that they look forward to coming to school each day. This is a 10.9 percentage point decrease from last year’s survey. On a positive note, 82% percent of the students reported feeling safer at school this year than last year. This is a large increase, (25.1 points) from the 2018-19, survey and surpasses the 80% recorded in 2017-18. Conditions of school facilities continues to be a major concern by students as 52.5% (improved from 47.5% in 2018-19) reported that they “Agree” that their “school is clean, safe and in good condition.”   The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to Grade 7 (268/), Grade 9 (264), and Grade 11 (238). Table A4.10 on page 18 of the CA Healthy Kids Survey The average reporting “Agree” or  “Strongly agree” for “School Connectedness” Grade 7 = 41, Grade 9 = 43, Grade 11 = 34. 54% of 7th Grade students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school. 47% of 9th Grade students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school. 47% of 11th Grade students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school.  Low scores on elementary school cleanliness have been reported for few years. Additional custodial hours have been added to elementary schools in order to address students’ concerns. It is anticipated that this score should improve with the opening of Imperial Cross and both Ben Hulse and TL Waggoner housing less students.  This concern will continued to be monitored.   Students at all sites have provided staff with worthy recommendations. Elementary school students have requested additional visual arts and performing arts instruction along with an increase in availability of technology. Middle and high school students have requested additional foreign language instruction, other than Spanish, and including sign language. High School students have requested an increase in AP and CTE courses.   All these recommendations have been included in the District's LCAP and are being addressed.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
13631230122663|Imperial Valley Home School Academy|6|A local school climate survey that captures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness was administered to all students in grades 2-8 in August 2019. When asked "Do you feel safe at school?" 80.70% stated Extremely and 17.54% stated Somewhat. 100% agreed that they felt welcomed on campus. When asked "Do you feel like you can easily talk to teachers/staff?" 87.72% stated Yes and 10.53% stated Somewhat. 80.70% of students find that coming to workshops are extremely helpful while 15.79% stated it was Somewhat helpful.|2019-10-08|Imperial Valley Home School Academy is a dependent charter school that supports parents with schooling their children at home. Instruction takes place in the home with parents as the teachers. The school supports instruction by providing the curriculum and lessons and voluntary enrichment and support workshops provided at the academy location.|Met|2019
50712660120063|Independence Charter|6|The district administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey every other year to students in 5th grade.  The charter school students participate in the district survey collection.  Since the 2017 survey two data points have been areas for growth and monitoring – School Connectedness and Caring Adult Relationships.   In 2019, 5th grade results showed there was a 16% increase in School Connectedness (69%) and 17% increase in Caring Adult Relationships (67%).    Each spring the charter surveys all students in grades 3 – 5 using a local survey about LCAP actions including: School Climate, STEAM Thursday learning opportunities; Lunchtime activities led by additional yard duty staff; and Keeping the campus and bathrooms clean.  When comparing the spring 2018 and 2019 surveys, the charter saw an increase in the number of students agreeing to the following School Climate questions:  50% of students reported that students treat each other with respect (12% increase) and 100% of students agreed that they feel they belong (are accepted and liked) at school (12% increase).  83% of students reported that they feel they belong (are accepted and liked) at school.  The charter has been implementing Action 2.2 All schools will maintain high levels of safety where students learn social and emotional skills and receive additional supports to increase their engagement in learning.  This action has contributed to the success of increasing School Climate through the addition of the following:  school counselors; elementary music and PE teachers; S.T.E.A.M Thursdays at elementary schools.  The charter is in early implementation phase of school-wide Positive Behavior and Intervention Supports (PBIS) and social emotional learning programs.  The charter will continue to implement more fully these actions to continue to increase School Climate.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
36677360130948|Independence Charter Academy|6|The independence Charter Academy administers an annual climate survey that focuses on the student's perception of whole school, classroom, bus, cafeteria, and bathroom safety. These surveys are administered to every student in grade 2-12. The results are reported at annual stakeholder meetings in order to gain feedback for LCAP and Strategic Planning purposes as well as during open session of a regularly scheduled Board Meeting. Annual survey data has had an upward or stable trend over the past six years in all areas. Overall students feel that they attend school in a safe environment where those who are responsible care about their wellbeing. It should be noted that during the last survey administration bullying perceptions were reduced significantly and in the parent climate survey input was more than doubled.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
09618950000000|Indian Diggings Elementary|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
45700370000000|Indian Springs Elementary|6|We are a small rural school where all staff and parents care greatly about the success of all students. Because of our school is the center of the community our school culture is focused on the entire community.|2019-09-06||Met|2019
19647330121137|Ingenium Charter|6|DATA: Some of the key findings from our YouthTruth Survey given to students in March of 2019 included the following:  When asked whether students in the class treat the teacher with respect, 66% of students responded with “sometimes” while 28% responded “very often.”  When asked if adults in the school respect people from different backgrounds (different skin color, boys and girls, people from different countries), 80% of students responded with “very often.”  When asked if your teacher treats you with respect, 8% of students responded with “sometimes” while 90% responded with “very often.”  When asked if you think your teacher cares about you, 12% of students responded “somewhat” while 85% responded “very much.”  MEANING: Reviewing these key findings, you can determine that students have a very positive perception of school climate in terms of how their teachers treat them, and about how much their teachers care about them. It can also be determined from these findings that the students generally believe that the adults on campus treat people from different backgrounds with respect. The identified opportunity for improvement based on reviewing the data from this survey points to how students perceive their peers interactions with teachers. A lower than desired percentage of  students believed that their peers treated the teacher with respect “very often.” This could indicate that students need more support in meeting behavior expectations and collaborating with their teachers in respectful, meaningful ways.  USE: As a result of these findings, Ingenium Charter School has made improving the Culture and Climate of the campus a priority in the school improvement plan. In pursuit of this work, there is an immediate focus on Teacher to Student interactions, and Student to Student interactions. Caring School Communities curriculum has been purchased and implemented in the classrooms to support with social-emotional work. Regular walkthroughs to measure both the fidelity and effectiveness of this curriculum have already begun. Teachers implement problem solving, community building huddles and organize cross-grade level buddy classroom events for student to student mentorship. In addition, Ingenium Charter School is partnering with the Center for Educational Leadership to continue working towards an ideal campus culture. Some of this work includes professional learning for teachers, principals, and home office staff in coaching for improvement, implementing learning walkthroughs, and giving meaningful feedback connected to multiple look fors related to classroom and school culture. The results so far are promising. Not only is school staff showing observable evidence of positive teacher-student interactions, but classroom teachers are consistently implementing the Caring School Communities curriculum to support Student-Student interactions as well.|2019-10-28|This standard was met.|Met|2019
19647330127985|Ingenium Charter Middle|6|DATA Ingenium Charter Middle School administered the Youth Truth survey to 6th, 7th and 8th grade students during the 2018-2019 school year. Students had two opportunities to take the survey; fall and spring. The survey’s key measurements are Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging and Peer Collaboration and Culture. In the Spring of 2019, Ingenium Charter Middle School (ICMS) had 88% of the student population complete the survey. Out of the five key measurements, ICMS scored higher than most California schools in Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging and Peer Collaboration. We found that ICMS teachers provide students with assignments that help them learn and that teachers make an effort to give opportunities for students to apply their learning to real life. In addition, students felt that teachers at ICMS make an effort to build relationships with them. Furthermore, the survey revealed that students feel like they belong, that other students are friendly to them, and that they can work with their peers even without being asked.    MEANING The survey results reveal that students feel they can work with a peer in a classroom and that peers are friendly. Furthermore, the results revealed that teachers care about students and understand that building a relationship with students promotes a positive learning environment.  Although the results revealed that teachers care about students, we noticed opportunities around improving the perception of fairness at the school as well as making the school a more enjoyable place to be. This shows as an area of growth for ICMS. In addition, The ICMS data revealed that students needed knowledge on how to manage their emotions, learn how to maintain positive relationships, and make responsible decisions. We already noticing changes this year with a higher attendance rate and a more positive culture around the school with some of the changes that have been made.   USE Based on results from the last survey, ICMS has implemented school wide behavior expectations and explicitly taught them to all students in assemblies. School-Wide expectations are continually being taught in classrooms. In addition, ICMS has started implementing a social emotional learning curriculum; Caring School Community for 6th grade and Second Step for 7th and 8th grade students. The curriculum will allow students to build social skills, friendship skills, emotion management and problem solving.|2019-10-28|This standard was met.|Met|2019
19734370137240|Ingenium Clarion Charter Middle|6|DATA ICCMS rolled out its first YouthTruth survey to students in March 2019 to inquire about the students' perceptions in relation to academic rigor, their relationships with teachers, peers, overall student engagement, and school culture. ICCMS successfully surveyed 46/50 6th grade students. ICCMS scored favorably on academic rigor, student engagement, relationships with peers, and school culture. ICCMS ranked in the 91st percentile on the student engagement domain which describes the degree to which students feel engaged.  ICCMS ranked in the 93rd percentile on the Academic Rigor domain which describes the degree to which they feel challenged by their teachers and the coursework. ICCMS ranked in the 90th percentile on the relationships domain which describes the degree to which they feel support from their teachers. ICCMS ranked in the 94th percentile on the Belonging and Peer Collaboration domain which describes the degree to which students feel welcomed. Lastly, ICCMS ranked in the 62nd percentile which describes the degree to which they feel the school has created a culture of respect and fairness.   MEANING  The indicators revealed that students enjoy coming to school, that they take pride in their school work and that the classwork helps them outside of school. They also show that students believe they have to work hard in class, that the work makes them think critically, that teachers give them assignments that help them learn, and that their teachers know how to explain things well. Moreover, students feel their teachers are available to give them extra help, and that they care about who they are, both in school and out of school.  Students also believe that they can be themselves at school, that students are friendly and that they are supported by their peers. Lastly, students feel their peers want them to do well in class, and that adults treat them with respect. However, students feel that their peers do not treat adults with respect.   USE After reflecting on the data presented by YouthTruth, the staff at ICCMS concluded that part of the challenge with student-teacher relationships is the lack of respect that students have for staff. Staff concluded that the lack of respect is due to the lack of focus on building relationships with the “whole child” and that we lack a positive behavior supports.  ICCMS has moved to remedy this by creating and implementing Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports, as well as protocols and systems for developing relationships with students.|2019-10-28|This standard was met.|Met|2019
19734370137257|Ingenium Wings Independent Study - Compton|6||||Not Met|2019
37683380131979|Ingenuity Charter|6|DATA: Ingenuity percentage answered with highest ranking : Overall supports and engagement: 78% School safety: 92%  Low physical/emotional abuse: 88.3% School connectedness: 64.5%  MEANING: Data collected indicates that overall, students have a high sense of overall supports and engagement and a high sense of school safety.  Data also indicates that the LEA struggles with school connectedness. As an Independent Study program, school connectedness is a constant struggle.  The LEA has an open enrollment window that allows for students to enroll at any time during the school year. With a traditional program school connectedness would be built over time throughout the school year.  Due to the structure of the LEA, school connectedness presents a unique struggle. USE: This data will be used to strategically place student supports to increase a sense of community and school connectedness among students, such as additional group science labs, increased community service opportunities, and Outdoor Outreach field trips. Overall, school-wide, the LEA experienced positive student and parent perceptions of school safety and physical and emotional supports.  The LEA will maintain efforts in these areas.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19646340000000|Inglewood Unified|6|Inglewood used two tools to measure school climate. We provided surveys for staff, students, and parents developed by the LCAP stakeholder committee and we gave the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2018.  On the LCAP survey, which we administer on a yearly basis, parents and students indicated overall they felt that we could improve safety and climate. Although they did state that we were making concerted efforts to improve. This information was shared with the LCAP committee members, DELAC, District extended cabinet and teachers. This lead to us revisiting our LCAP goals, actions and services and secure actions that we could address some of the findings. We intent to use the survey annually to see if the perception of the community indicates positive change.  The CHKS survey given in fall 2018 to students in grades 5, 8 and high school indicated that students did not feel connected to their school. A large percentage of students presented thoughts of suicide and depression. Overall students felt that they their learning environments and conditions could improve.  Based on the information gathered from the surveys completed, we now have elementary counselors and a district wide social worker to support our students and help them feel connected. This information was used to create LCAP actions and services that address improving learning conditions, creating socio emotional support, and improving culturally relevant curriculum and professional learning opportunities for all staff.  The CHKS survey will be given again in the spring of 2020.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
36679590114256|Inland Leaders Charter|6|Extensive LCAP and local priority surveys are administered during the spring season. Survey results are shared with all stakeholders including the ILCS Board during summer meetings and through our website.  ILCS has a strong history of stakeholder input in regards to the safety and climate of the school and it has been an area of primary focus for the last ten years. Parent response rates range from fifty to seventy-five percent and all students are surveyed except for TK and kindergarten. Surveys provide insight into class and site levels as well as overall “district” level issues. Instructional staff are also surveyed as part of the overall data on school climate. Staff data closely aligns with parent data.  Key learnings from the surveys indicate that school climate and safety are a strength at over 90% satisfaction rates. Areas of improvement noted by stakeholders include improving the bathrooms at the California Street Campus and “kind” peer to peer interactions in which students felt their peers could be more respectful toward one another: specifically in middle school grades. Students analyze grade level behavior data on an on-going basis and develop action steps to improve negative patterns. Student discipline and behaviors are closely monitored and supported through a variety of strategies including contract accountability meetings, Student Success Teams, on-site counseling and health services, community resources, suicide prevention plans and teams, anti-bullying campaigns, social media workshops and overall student wellness initiatives. ILCS recognizes the need to increase student supports in the area of career readiness through increased opportunities. Currently, ILCS has one Career Technical Education (CTE) teacher and one other teacher is in progress. The leadership team also notes the need for a continued effort in global service learning to bring a greater perspective to students who live in a small town. On average, ILCS students marked on the surveys that they felt safe, cared for and challenged in their classes. Survey results demonstrate strong connections between staff and students and excellent rapport. In addition, the WASC review team provided high accolades for the school environment including student to student rapport but also positive interactions among staff and parents.  Surveys also reveal the need for parent training and support with topics such as discipline, growth mindset, social media, parenting skills. Currently parent workshops focus on instructional strategies and academic goals. Parents are provided with constant contact with the school through communication tools that involve text, email and phone calls. Emergency systems are in place as well as a coordinated emergency plan.  Facility inspections reveal clean and safe environments based on the state of California facility inspection tool. Inspections occur during the fall season.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
37683380118083|Innovations Academy|6|Three surveys were given to parents during the 2018-19 school year that asked questions about parent and student experiences. 90% of parent responses agreed that our facility contributes to their child's learning. Over 80% of parents express that their child feels  supported at school. Parents express feeling more informed about assessments and academics. Based on the comments survey, parents are happy that their child feels comfortable at school and that their child has access to our social emotional program and our hands on learning environment.  Data shows that the newer a student is to our school, the more support they need from staff. The survey results showed that students feel safe and supported at school. Out of 192 students surveyed 97.9% agreed with the statement, "My teacher cares about me." 93.1% of students responded positively that they get the help they need when they need it.  A challenge is to get more parents to respond to the surveys. Since the surveys are anonymous, it is hard to know if they are the same or different parents responding to the surveys.  A few parent comments allowed us to see some areas of growth. These comments demonstrate a lack of understanding about how to come into the school and get individual needs met (more information, more individual support, more specific academic data). As a result, we will leave the survey open for a longer period and share information (more than once during the school year) that reminds parents who to go to for specific questions or needs and encourages them to realize that we want both their positive and their critical feedback. It is our goal to have 100% of parents contribute to the continuous improvement conversation (even the outliers) and that their child is learning, they recognize the learning and that their child expresses satisfaction with their time at school. Additionally, we seek to be a school in which parents embrace that their child is being academically challenged in our non-traditional environment. We have seen growth in this area due to changes we have made in our Exhibition of student work, addition of portfolio reviews and parent communication platforms.|2019-06-28|We have a very positive school climate as noted by our high turnout for school events, high participation rate on school surveys demonstrating over 75% satisfaction rates on all questions, low suspension and expulsion rates, active and ongoing restorative practice (for the past 10 years) and vibrant social emotional program that is practiced by staff and students alike and involves the use of problem-solving, conflict resolution, solution seeking discipline and a kind and firm classroom management approach to support the growth of intrinsic motivation. We do not use any rewards or punishment systems so that we can build intrinsic motivation in all of our students. We are continually balancing engaging, hands on academics with the needs to produce high scores on standardized tests and will continue to challenge ourselves in this area. Stress from over testing can create a negative school climate for students and teachers.|Met|2019
33671996105571|Innovative Horizons Charter|6|Each year middle school students complete a survey where they answer questions regarding student engagement, college and career readiness, and extracurricular activities. Other questions they answer are about positive school culture and safe school climate. In gathering the data, middle school students gave positive school culture 58.1% and safe school climate 64.5%. To reduce the suspension rate year to year, and to increase the percentages in positive school culture and safe school climate, IHCS has created alternatives to suspension. Some of the alternatives include a leader essay, community service, attendance of Saturday Academy, and restorative practices.|2019-10-10|IHCS has been working diligently on MTSS. As a testament to the hard work and focus on MTSS, IHCS received a Silver recognition award from the state PBIS.  The goal will be to continue demonstrating achievement through growth of positive student behavior and decline of incidents reports and suspensions, as well as an increase of student attendance and academic participation on campus. In addition, by developing a positive and safe environment, students will strive to become role models and leaders within our school and community. Ultimately students will be academically successful and productive members of society.|Met|2019
37684030125401|Insight @ San Diego|6|Insight continuously surveys students and families as well as provide opportunities for parents to provide feedback during parent nights that include discussions surrounding school connectedness and safety.  The virtual aspect of our school allows for students to feel safe within their homes while completing their school day.  This is noticeable throughout our surveys.  While the virtual environment allows for students to feel safe, it makes school connectedness difficult.  Parents have voiced that they would like to see more in-person opportunities for their students as well as more virtual clubs for socialization.  Insight included in-person onboarding sessions for our families at the beginning of the 2019-2020 school year in order to allow staff and parents to meet in a face to face session before the school year began.  The school has also increased in-person outings throughout the school year to allow for more face to face activity time.  The outings include recreational activities, college/vocational school tours and community service projects that the students are able to participate in as a high school group.  Insight has also provided times for clubs to be included within the school day on a weekly basis, where the club does not interfere with any live session courses.  This has allowed for more students to have the ability to attend.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
39686270133116|Insight @ San Joaquin|6|Insight @ San Joaquin continuously surveys students and families as well as provide opportunities for parents to provide feedback during parent nights that include discussions surrounding school connectedness and safety.  The virtual aspect of our school allows for students to feel safe within their homes while completing their school day.  This is noticeable throughout our surveys.  While the virtual environment allows for students to feel safe, it makes school connectedness difficult.  Parents have voiced that they would like to see more in-person opportunities for their students as well as more virtual clubs for socialization.  Insight @ San Joaquin included in-person onboarding sessions for our families at the beginning of the 2019-2020 school year in order to allow staff and parents to meet in a face to face session before the school year began.  The school has also increased in-person outings throughout the school year to allow for more face to face activity time.  The outings include recreational activities, college/vocational school tours and community service projects that the students are able to participate in as a high school group.  Insight @ San Joaquin has also provided times for clubs to be included within the school day on a weekly basis, where the club does not interfere with any live session courses.  This has allowed for more students to have the ability to attend.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
15636280127209|Insight School of California|6|Insight continuously surveys students and families as well as provide opportunities for parents to provide feedback during parent nights that include discussions surrounding school connectedness and safety.  The virtual aspect of our school allows for students to feel safe within their homes while completing their school day.  This is noticeable throughout our surveys.  While the virtual environment allows for students to feel safe, it makes school connectedness difficult.  Parents have voiced that they would like to see more in-person opportunities for their students as well as more virtual clubs for socialization.  Insight included in-person onboarding sessions for our families at the beginning of the 2019-2020 school year in order to allow staff and parents to meet in a face to face session before the school year began.  The school has also increased in-person outings throughout the school year to allow for more face to face activity time.  The outings include recreational activities, college/vocational school tours and community service projects that the students are able to participate in as a high school group.  Insight has also provided times for clubs to be included within the school day on a weekly basis, where the club does not interfere with any live session courses.  This has allowed for more students to have the ability to attend.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19753090129742|Inspire Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
51714560133934|Inspire Charter School - North|6|In general, our school climate results indicate that well over 85% of parents believe their children/teenagers are receiving a good education, feel safe and connected with our school, receive appropriate academic support, and are able to effectively communicate and interact with teachers and administrators.  Similarly, students indicate they feel connected to the school and look forward to school each day particularly, educational field trips, enrichment activities, and other social events offered through the school such as zoo days, school dances, field trips or park days. Nonetheless, we are implementing online engagement strategies to increase the number of students who actively participate in their live, online classes and discussions.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
04614240120394|Inspire School of Arts and Sciences|6|Inspire uses “Education for the Future” to conduct an annual survey for students, staff, and families. The survey identifies indicators of social-emotional needs and general attitudinal data regarding the school climate and community. Typically, the data is generally positive with the vast majority of the indicators from all parties in the “strongly agree” or “agree” range of positive attitudes towards the school community. The survey is relatively consistent year to year, however, student data is dis-aggregated by grade, ethnicity, and interest area and shows some variety of response. Significantly useful data are the open-ended responses about the strengths and weaknesses of the school.  Data is shared with staff in order to consider and address these areas. Presently, the themes of strength at the school are the connectedness of the student body, the engagement in the advisory program, and the caring nature of faculty and staff. Areas of growth include increased communication between home and school, increased accountability for students and staff, and improving facilities.  Inspire has taken action in recent years based on these surveys to increase channels of communication through a new learning management system (Schoology), bolster the leadership and support of the advisory program, and invest significant time and effort into pursuing resources to move the school to a new location with improved facilities.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
37682210101360|Integrity Charter|6|The climate survey was given to 5th graders. The results from the survey indicated majority of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that they felt connected to school, majority of the respondents also agreed or strongly agreed the students looked forward to school each day and their teacher was engaging, contacted with the family and provided academic support to the student.  Students shared how they could connect with their teachers in-person, class dojo, and email.  The students stated they felt they had access to assistance as needed from school staff. The students stated they felt connected to school through the educational field trips, enrichment activities, and other social events offered through the school such as zoo days, school dances, field trips or park days.|2019-10-21|Met|Met|2019
19101990134346|Intellectual Virtues Academy|6|We surveyed our students from all grades served at the mid-point and end of the 2018-19 school year. Below are the results of our last survey: • 90% state Academy is a “supportive and inviting place to learn”  • 80% state they feel safe at the Academy  • 72% state overall satisfaction Based on the responses to questions addressing perceptions of safety and connectedness, we see that almost all (90%) students feel that Academy is a “supportive and inviting place to learn” and that a vast majority (80%) feel safe at the Academy.   Together with our parent survey, these results support the conclusion that the Academy is a safe, supportive, and inviting place to learn.  It also reveals that there is room for growth in its culture and climate even if it is a relative strength as compared to schools with similar demographics.  Mental health-related survey questions on the California Healthy Kids Survey also provide important data regarding our students’ personal well being: • 43% report experiencing chronic sadness/hopelessness in last 12 months (vs. 30-32% statewide); 45% among incoming freshman reflecting on their 8th grade year • 19% report that they have seriously considered suicide in last 12 months (vs. 16% statewide); 20% among incoming freshman reflecting on their 8th grade year This data reveals the depths of the challenges faced by our population of students and the critical need that the Academy, with its positive school climate, fills in their lives.  Many of our students face difficult, and often traumatic, challenges at home or in their neighborhoods that affect their mental health, at higher rates than overall state averages, and yet Academy student surveys show that students experience high levels of safety at school and connectedness to school.   The Academy continues to focus on a healthy school culture and overall climate as a key to academic success and overall student health. The Academy has pushed on a number of key fronts to ensure a robust climate where students can feel safe, cared for, and can get the help they may need both academically and socio-emotionally.  Key recent initiatives: school-wide PBIS training, support staff hiring (aide, counseling), and improved third-party support provisioning.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
19647250127506|Intellectual Virtues Academy of Long Beach|6|IVA LCAP Goal 5. Supportive Academic Environment: Engage students in learning by maintaining systems that promote positive school climate of safety and connectedness through preventative supports. This goal is based on the students need that students' learning is maximized when they are present in class and students' learning is maximized when students have a sense of safety of school connectedness.  In order to measure school climate more in terms relative to the California Healthy Kids Survey, IVA adopted survey questions from LBUSD and the CORE accountability plan survey questions related to social and emotional health. IVA's goal is to maintain high rates of positive climate.  IVA's surveys for students are conducted at school with 100% of students responding. The survey is also sent to parents with between 75% of parents responding. Please see the following results:  Safety: "I feel safe at school (my child)" Students: 92% Parents 99%, "I feel safe (my child is safe) when at school" Parents 96%. "My child is safe in the neighborhood around the school." Parents 94%.   Connectedness: "To the best of my knowledge, the school provides proactive support and effective discipline through positive school climate of connectedness" 88% Parents. "Which social­-emotional supports have been most effective for my child?" 2019: caring teachers 93%, caring Admin 79%, safe school culture 65%, summer events 31%, restorative discipline 24%, Advisory 66%, Report Card Comments 49%, Student access to counselor 36%.   95% of Parents say that, "The school provides social-emotional support for my child."   "IVA staff helps students resolve conflicts with one another" Students 77%. "If I tell an adult at IVA that someone is mistreating me, the adult will do something to help." Students: 90%. "I feel close to people at the school." Students: 91%. "I am cared for by at least one adult at this school." Students 94%: "IVA is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn" Students 90% I feel close to people at this school."|2019-10-02|Additional Comments IVA is aware that there is mistreatment on campus and is using the results of the survey to encourage open conversations with students on the development of culture together. IVA continues to make gains in communicating clear expectations for students and is looking forward to tracking climate and connectedness results for all students as well as student groups moving forward. IVA is also glad to collect social-emotional health and connectedness questions from LBUSD's CORE survey and has made adjustments to this year's professional development, plans, interventions, and support systems in response to these results. IVA will continue to implement restorative practices in class, which go well with the instructional model of a culture of thinking that encourages social-emotional connectedness in the practice of learning.|Met|2019
27660926118962|International School of Monterey|6|ISM places a huge emphasis on positive school climate, starting with its mission to “educate all children toward becoming conscientious, compassionate, and responsible citizens of the world” and its vision of “a world of understanding.” In keeping with the vision, ISM focuses on creating small worlds of understanding in each classroom each day to help students develop the character that will make them contributors to a global world of understanding throughout their lives.  The emphasis on school climate is formalized in LCAP Outcome 2.9: ISM leverages its fiscal, physical, and human resources to achieve a positive and productive school climate, culture, and community. ISM has assessed its performance relative to this outcome through annual student, parent, and staff surveys, targeting an average of 3.5 or above on a 5-point scale for all climate, culture, and community related items. The 10 climate-related items on the student survey are: ~ I feel that my classmates care for and respect me. ~ I care for and respect my classmates. ~ I feel cared for and respected by the ISM staff. ~ ISM is a safe place to be. ~ I can tell when another student is being mistreated or bullied. ~ Students at ISM do not mistreat or bully each other. ~ I know what to do when someone is being mistreated or bullied. ~ We learn to respect differences among people at ISM. ~ ISM teachers respect differences among students at ISM. ~ I can explain how ISM is different from other schools.  The target was achieved on the most recent administration of the student survey in 2018, as ratings averaged 3.5 or higher for all 10 items, and 4.0 or higher on 8. Likewise, the target was achieved on the parent/guardian survey, where ratings averaged 3.5 or higher for all 26 items and 4.0 or higher on 19; and on the staff survey where ratings averaged 3.5 or higher for all 10 items and 4.0 or higher for 8. The positive results for all 236 students surveyed were mirrored in the results for significant subgroups.  Overall, the annual survey results confirm that ISM’s mission- and vision-driven focus on school climate, culture, and community results in students feeling respected, safe, well treated, and valued. Other metrics such as high average daily attendance (96.5%), low chronic absenteeism (4.7%), and no middle school dropouts further support this conclusion.  The few 3.5-4.0 scores have helped identify specific areas where the school might make further gains. Based on this data and open-ended comments, ISM has invested significant time and money in further strengthening school climate, including hiring an Assistant Principal for School Culture & Community; forming a Climate, Culture, and Community Team whose four faculty members work with the Assistant Principal to develop climate-related activities and events; implementing a Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS); and encouraging teachers to take time to focus on positive classroom climate, particularly at the start of the school year.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
07100740137026|Invictus Academy of Richmond|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
14101400000000|Inyo County Office of Education|6|DATA: JKBS conducts a student survey every year to assess student perceptions about school climate and connectedness. Key findings from this survey are as follows:  100% of students agree that they feel safe at JKBS. 27% of students agree that students respect each other at JKBS. 45% of  students agree that students at JKBS care about learning and getting a good education. 82% of students understand why they are placed at JKBS and what the must accomplish to return to their home school. 91% of students agree that they have the instructional materials they need to complete schoolwork and obtain credit. 36.4% of students indicate they do not attend school regularly. 55% of students disagree that teachers understand what their life is like outside of school.  MEANING: Areas of strength based upon survey results are students feeling safe at school, acknowledging why they were placed at JKBS, what they must accomplish to return to their home school and that they feel they have the necessary resources to earn credit to return to their home schools.  Areas of need include increasing staff responsiveness to trauma students' experience outside the classroom, improved attendance, respect for peers and care for getting a good education. Poor attendance must also be addressed.   USE: While the numbers have improved for students who feel teachers don’t understand the trauma many of them experience outside of school, we must always seek to address the learning barriers trauma creates for our students and continue to develop trust and build strong relationships..   JKBS will seek to implement more collaborative/cooperative instructional strategies to address the perception that students do not respect nor help each other.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
04614400121509|Ipakanni Early College Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
04615070121509|Ipakanni Early College Charter|6|IECCS administered the survey in the 2017-2018 school year to all students in K-12.   The survey will be administered during the 2019-2020 school year.  The needs which needed to be addressed were the attendance rate, Chronic Absenteeism, and the mobility rate.  The attendance rate (89%) with an overall goal of reaching 95%.   On the survey, 89% of the students felt like they belonged. Overall 86% of the students said they felt safe at school.  One area of improvement is students indicated the need for clearer rules and consequences for behaviors.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19734520120600|iQ Academy California-Los Angeles|6|18-19 Survey feedback was overwhelmingly positive: 96% of respondents agree with the statement that their student feels safe at school. 97% of respondents agree with the statement that their student has access to high quality curriculum. 88% of respondents agree with the statement that there are many ways to be involved in school 94% of respondents agree with the statement that their student's teachers have high expectations for student achievement. 92% of respondents stated they were satisfied with the quality of instruction. 93% of respondents stated they were satisfied with their students' Class Connects. Parents and students provided input that both virtual and in-person opportunities for socialization were important. Workshops of interest to parents included College/Career Planning, Study Skills and College Readiness.  These identified areas of growth, along with the EAMOs drive the priorities for the 19-20 plan, which includes a focus on building connections, improving face-to-face opportunities for families and implementing tools and professional development for staff that will support these efforts.|2019-06-12|iQLA continues to send comprehensive surveys to parents to gather input on the current programs, school culture and student needs.  iQLA also synchronous parent and student input session in which parents and students were asked to provide feedback on what programs students utilized, perception of success, experience, needs, communication, and level of engagement.  Additional progress on school climate has been made in the area of a refined Mission, Core Values and Vision Statement, created with input from stakeholder groups as well as the adoption of a school mascot, the iQ Panther.  Through the implementation of the values, mission, vision and mascot, students will feel a sense of place, even in a virtual environment.|Met|2019
30736500000000|Irvine Unified|6|Evidence:  The Irvine Unified School District has a long history of engaging our stakeholders and asking them to share their perspectives regarding how effectively we are supporting student learning, aligning appropriate resources, cultivating positive school climates and maintaining clean and accessible campus facilities.   In the 2015-16 school year, IUSD, in partnership with Hanover Research, implemented the first district-wide survey. Beginning in 2017-18, Hanover Research also provided an Executive Summary for each school that captured the most compelling findings and provided a comprehensive overview of site results and comparisons to previous survey administrations.  We were encouraged by the participation rate for the 2018-19 Annual Survey which included 23,078 students, 6,820 parents and 1,772 staff.   The district is fortunate to have initiated a partnership with Hanover Research and the development of our survey prior to the implementation of the LCFF statute (EC Section 52060(d)(6)) that now requires districts to implement a “Climate Survey” to assist in the measurement of State Priority #6, School Climate. The state identifies three measures relevant to school climate:  1. Pupil suspension rates  2. Pupil expulsion rates  3. “Other local measures” which includes surveys of pupils, parents, and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness   This survey information, when used with other relevant data such as the California Dashboard, CAASPP assessment results, Bright Bytes technology survey data, California Healthy Kids Survey and site assessment data, will assist administrators in planning the newly LCAP aligned Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) and developing measurable goals for continuous improvement.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19734370134338|ISANA Achernar Academy|6|In Spring of 2019, ISANA Achernar Academy conducted a survey with its students which asked questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students from different grades and student groups were surveyed. The school had an increase in the number of students who took the survey compared to the year before. An analysis is below. Students rated the school on a 1-5 scale (1 being strongly disagree, 5 being strongly agree). Three questions included the following, “I feel welcome at my school,” “I feel safe at my school” and “I feel like people care about me at my school.” The minimum criteria we set was a 3/5. As can be seen below, the school scored well above that minimum threshold:   Average Scores: I feel welcome at my school: 3.88 I feel safe at my school: 3.71 I feel like people care about me at my school: 3.58 Overall Average: 3.72|2019-06-25||Met|2019
19647330123984|ISANA Cardinal Academy|6|In Spring of 2019, ISANA Cardinal Academy conducted a survey with its students which asked questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students from different grades and student groups were surveyed. The school had an increase in the number of students who took the survey compared to the year before. An analysis is below. Students rated the school on a 1-5 scale (1 being strongly disagree, 5 being strongly agree). Three questions included the following, “I feel welcome at my school,” “I feel safe at my school” and “I feel like people care about me at my school.” The minimum criteria we set was a 3/5. As can be seen below, the school scored well above that minimum threshold:   Average Scores: I feel welcome at my school: 4.45 I feel safe at my school: 4.38 I feel like people care about me at my school: 4.17 Overall Average: 3.72|2019-06-25||Met|2019
19770810135954|ISANA Himalia Academy|6|In Spring of 2019, ISANA Himalia Academy conducted a survey with its students which asked questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students from different grades and student groups were surveyed. The school had an increase in the number of students who took the survey compared to the year before. An analysis is below. Students rated the school on a 1-5 scale (1 being strongly disagree, 5 being strongly agree). Three questions included the following, “I feel welcome at my school,” “I feel safe at my school” and “I feel like people care about me at my school.” The minimum criteria we set was a 3/5. As can be seen below, the school scored well above that minimum threshold:   Average Scores: I feel welcome at my school: 3.96 I feel safe at my school: 3.97 I feel like people care about me at my school: 3.70 Overall Average: 3.88|2019-06-25||Met|2019
19647330108910|ISANA Nascent Academy|6|In Spring of 2019, ISANA Nascent Academy conducted a survey with its students which asked questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students from different grades and student groups were surveyed. The school had an increase in the number of students who took the survey compared to the year before. An analysis is below. Students rated the school on a 1-5 scale (1 being strongly disagree, 5 being strongly agree). Three questions included the following, “I feel welcome at my school,” “I feel safe at my school” and “I feel like people care about me at my school.” The minimum criteria we set was a 3/5. As can be seen below, the school scored well above that minimum threshold:   Average Scores: I feel welcome at my school: 3.84 I feel safe at my school: 3.57 I feel like people care about me at my school: 3.70 Overall Average: 3.7|2019-06-25||Met|2019
19647330122655|ISANA Octavia Academy|6|In Spring of 2019, ISANA Octavia Academy conducted a survey with its students which asked questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students from different grades and student groups were surveyed. The school had an increase in the number of students who took the survey compared to the year before. An analysis is below. Students rated the school on a 1-5 scale (1 being strongly disagree, 5 being strongly agree). Three questions included the following, “I feel welcome at my school,” “I feel safe at my school” and “I feel like people care about me at my school.” The minimum criteria we set was a 3/5. As can be seen below, the school scored well above that minimum threshold:   Average Scores: I feel welcome at my school: 3.86 I feel safe at my school: 3.84 I feel like people care about me at my school: 3.65 Overall Average: 3.78|2019-06-25||Met|2019
19647330123166|ISANA Palmati Academy|6|In Spring of 2019, ISANA Palmati Academy conducted a survey with its students which asked questions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students from different grades and student groups were surveyed. The school had an increase in the number of students who took the survey compared to the year before. An analysis is below. Students rated the school on a 1-5 scale (1 being strongly disagree, 5 being strongly agree). Three questions included the following, “I feel welcome at my school,” “I feel safe at my school” and “I feel like people care about me at my school.” The minimum criteria we set was a 3/5. As can be seen below, the school scored well above that minimum threshold:   Average Scores: I feel welcome at my school: 4.36 I feel safe at my school: 4.29 I feel like people care about me at my school: 4.29 Overall Average: 4.31|2019-06-25||Met|2019
10622400114587|Island Community Day|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
16639336010466|Island Elementary|6|DATA: Overall our students feel safe and connected at school.  We will continue to focus on the social emotional well being of our students and give them an additional, more in depth survey to determine if there are students with any social emotional needs we may have missed from the initial survey.     MEANING: We are a small single school school district  which promotes and has a tight family community feel.  We have many opportunities to build the family connectedness.  We have noted in our Healthy Kids Survey that our 6th -8th grade have an average of 66% feeling connected.  We are looking for further ways to help the students feel more connected.  We noted in the 6th-8th grade we have an average of 23% of feeling chronically sad or hopeless in the last 12 months. Our student council will be creating events/activities monthly to help promote connectedness and school pride.  USE: Our data is showing the importance of our implementation of mindfulness training schoolwide to support being mindful of our well being and emotions and ways to support yourself during times of struggle.  We have continued to employ a psychologist and behaviorist on campus 80% of the time to support our students and staff.  They empower the students and staff with strategies and supports as needed.  Each classroom has at a minimum one class meeting a week to help students have a voice, contribute in solving problems, and giving them a real sense of community.|2019-10-23|Our multi-tiered system of support team (MTSS)reviewed the student, staff and parent survey information and noted a need for a common understanding of social and behavioral expectations throughout all areas of the school to provide an even more safe, positive, learning community.  We worked with all stakeholders to create common Cardinal Expectations and implemented a schoolwide program with three Cardinal Expectations for each area, from inside the classroom, cafeteria, library, to outside and more.   Once trained on each of the Cardinal Expectations students and staff have stated they have seen an increase in positive, congenial behavior.|Met|2019
16639330000000|Island Union Elementary|6|DATA: Overall our students feel safe and connected at school.  We will continue to focus on the social emotional well being of our students and give them an additional, more in depth survey to determine if there are students with any social emotional needs we may have missed from the initial survey.     MEANING: We are a small single school school district  which promotes and has a tight family community feel.  We have many opportunities to build the family connectedness.  We have noted in our Healthy Kids Survey that our 6th -8th grade have an average of 66% feeling connected.  We are looking for further ways to help the students feel more connected.  We noted in the 6th-8th grade we have an average of 23% of feeling chronically sad or hopeless in the last 12 months. Our student council will be creating events/activities monthly to help promote connectedness and school pride.  USE: Our data is showing the importance of our implementation of mindfulness training schoolwide to support being mindful of our well being and emotions and ways to support yourself during times of struggle.  We have continued to employ a psychologist and behaviorist on campus 80% of the time to support our students and staff.  They empower the students and staff with strategies and supports as needed.  Each classroom has at a minimum one class meeting a week to help students have a voice, contribute in solving problems, and giving them a real sense of community.|2019-10-23|Our multi-tiered system of support team (MTSS)reviewed the student, staff and parent survey information and noted a need for a common understanding of social and behavioral expectations throughout all areas of the school to provide an even more safe, positive, learning community.  We worked with all stakeholders to create common Cardinal Expectations and implemented a schoolwide program with three Cardinal Expectations for each area, from inside the classroom, cafeteria, library, to outside and more.   Once trained on each of the Cardinal Expectations students and staff have stated they have seen an increase in positive, congenial behavior.|Met|2019
19647330106351|Ivy Academia|6|Student surveys are distributed to all students to assess overall school effectiveness, engagement, and connection to the school community.  The  survey results in the most recent WASC report shows that the majority of students feel that their teachers and administrators care about them and their safety.  The LEA plans to do a more in-depth student survey mid-year to better assess student connectedness.  Many assemblies were offered including Anti-Bullying, Character Building, Drug and Alcohol awareness, Mental Health, and Distracted Driver.  This year a school-wide implementation by the LEA for the PBIS system, CHAMPS, is helping students feel they are treated more fairly and that expectations are clear.  The LEA has implemented a Community Pillars Speakers Program where elected officials, business officials, and community agencies engage with students to explore careers, community events, and opportunities for students to volunteer or participate in community programs.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
19647330128389|Ivy Bound Academy Math, Science, and Technology Charter Middle 2|6|Ivy Bound Academy continues to establish a campus where the students feel individually known, cared about, positively encouraged, and safe. Data and responses were compiled from a student-completed survey about each teacher and classroom. Based on the survey results, 78% of the students at our school felt that every teacher personally cared about them as an individual. 83% felt that they were positively encouraged by every teacher, all the time. 82% felt that they were safe in every classroom, all the time. This survey reinforced the goals of our school to achieve a campus where students feel safe and connected to our community and staff. We believe these strengths were a result of the many positive reinforcement programs that we have in place and the personal, one-on-one relationships that every staff member works hard to achieve with our students. Our positive behavior intervention and restorative justice measures were also crucial to helping the students feel cared about as we thoroughly communicated and reached mutual understandings, together. The student’s responses also revealed some challenges and barriers that needed revision and action for improvement. Some students revealed that they felt overwhelmed or stressed about academics and that some teachers did not fully understand the best method of learning for each student. From this feedback, we found effective solutions that are currently being implemented. Community circles that provide a safe and open communication environment for students to express their stresses and learn methods of managing emotions and difficult circumstances, are meeting on a monthly basis. To improve upon teaching to all types of learners and students, the staff work together in teams to prepare different lessons that  incorporate professional development lessons such as SDAIE (Specifically Designed Academic Instruction in English) and UDL (Universal Design for Learning) strategies. These changes are being received positively and students have provided written responses of feeling safer, less overwhelmed, and included. The incorporation of multiple learning styles in our teacher’s lessons have increased student participation and academic performance, evident in the lower number of missing assignments. Based on the parent-completed school climate survey, 100% of parents felt that their student is respected, treated equally, supported, and positively motivated. 100% of parents felt that their input and opinions were welcomed. Ivy Bound Academy will continue to maintain and find new ways for parents to be wholly a part of our school’s climate. The survey will be improved and adjusted to produce a collection of more detailed data to further improve our school. The revision of our current method of data collection will include, but is not be limited to: an addition of questions to the current survey and a student, parent, and staff compilation of improvement proposals.|2019-12-09|We establish a safe and positive school climate for our students through strict implementation of the school safety plan, positive behavior intervention coupled with restorative justice, and programs that support our school’s three pillars of scholarly, honorable, and visionary. Staff, students, and parents are continuously involved and encouraged to help build our school upon these pillars. Our school climate is built upon focusing on positively encouraging our students to meet scholarly goals, become honorable members of our community, and create visionary efforts to make our campus exceptional. We ensure the safety of our school by proper systematic preparation through the five missions of prevention, protection, mitigation, response, and recovery. We implement positive behavior intervention and restorative justice through: community circles for open communication for prevention of negative actions, multiple positive reinforcement programs including the Merit System and Climb the Vine to reward positive behavior and academic excellence, an orderly system of reasoning and reflection on any negative behavior including behavior charts and self-reflection meetings, and individual opportunities for students to improve, learn, and acquire visionary characteristics to contribute to the positive growth of our school. We pride ourselves in the concentrated support that we provide our students which is evident through our documented student feedback and low suspension rates|Met|2019
19647330115113|Ivy Bound Academy of Math, Science, and Technology Charter Middle|6|Student Climate Surveys have concluded that students feel safe on campus.  They feel that rules are in place and supported by clear and concise consequences for when those rules are broken.  Students also feel that these rules are in their best interests.  Much of the survey was focused on the perception of staff.  Students view the staff at Ivy Bound Academy as friendly, supportive, interested in teaching, and consistent in their policies.  Students feel that staff always encourages them to do their best, discourage bullying, and are consistent with enforcing school policy. Students view their peers as motivated and interested in learning.  Overall, Ivy Bound Academy has the support of its students and continues to do its best to provide them with the best educational experience possible.|2019-12-09||Met|2019
56739400121426|IvyTech Charter|6|From surveys and anecdotal interviews, our student body reports that IvyTech provides a clean and safe environment, with orderly and well supplied classrooms. All students, regardless of their ethnic, racial, sexual or gender orientation feel that they have agency and the freedom to openly express themselves without the fear of judgement or retaliation. Students enjoy multiple modalities of instruction and appreciate differentiated assessments that allow them to display their knowledge in ways that are nontraditional and are centered around the implementation of 21st century skills.   The structure of the school, small classes, and the individualized attention students receive all conspire to generate a healthy and productive learning environment. The greatest challenge ITCS faces is the fact that the school has fewer students per grade level than most learners have become accustomed to, in larger schools. Many students yearn for the opportunities presented in brick-and-mortar school environments (e.g. sports teams & formal dances). Hallmarks of those traditional educational experiences are difficult to facilitate at ITCS. Although integrating multiple grade levels of instruction in core subjects occurs seamlessly, social activities that would mix age groups are met with resistance from the student body.   IvyTech is expanding activities that bridge both academic and social interactions, such as field trips (e.g. physics day at Magic Mountain, trips to Griffith Park Observatory, the Getty Museum, the Museum of Tolerance, EF educational tours, college campus tours). The co-mingling of grades in nonacademic settings has fulfilled some of students’ expectations of their high school experience by increasing participation in school culture and thus improving the overall climate.|2019-05-22||Met|2019
12628930000000|Jacoby Creek Elementary|6|School Climate – Student Survey  The California Healthy Kids Survey is given to students on a bi-annual basis. 2018-2019 was an off year for giving the survey. In order to collect survey data about student perspective of safety the School Site Council developed a survey to give to students using Survey Monkey.  Ten questions were selected from the CHKS and administered to  fifth and seventh grade students.   Student Response:  Do you feel safe at school GRADE 5 % All or Most of the time 2015-2016 93% 2016-2017 84% 2017-2018 87% 2018-2019 81% % Increase or decrease 6% decrease  Student Response:  Do you feel safe at school? GRADE 7 % between neither safe nor unsafe-very safe 2015-2016 93% 2016-2017 100% 2017-2018 93% 2018-2019 95% % Increase or decrease 2% increase   School Climate – Parent Survey    Parent Response:  Does your child feel safe at school?   % Always or Most of the time 2015-2016 94% 2016-2017 96.5% 2017-2018 94% 2019-2020 80% % Increase or decrease 14% decrease  School Climate – Staff Survey   Staff Responses-Fall 2019  Free and open communication occurs frequently and effectively between parents and administration.    % Agree or Strongly Agree 2019 98%  Social and cultural differences are respected in the school.    % Agree or Strongly Agree 2019 92%       Free and open communication occurs between frequently between teachers and administrators.       % Agree or Strongly Agree 2019 100%  School staff members and students work together to keep the school clean and attractive.     % Agree or Strongly Agree 2019 87%|2019-10-21||Met|2019
19647330109884|James Jordan Middle|6|Our authorizing district, LAUSD, administers an annual School Experience Survey.  JJMS administrators review the staff, parent and student responses in detail each year.  The full results can be reviewed at https://achieve.lausd.net/Page/15606.  A summary of the major categories are shared with the School Site Council, the English Learner Advisory Committee, the teachers and the Board of Trustees.   Key Findings:  Student responses show slightly higher than district average ratings for Cognitive Engagement and Future Orientation.  Overall Academic focus has JJMS students rating at 85% agreement versus the district average of 76% agreeing that there is strong academic focus.  We are particularly glad that 91% of our students find that adults encourage them to do work hard in school as part of a path to succeeding in college or a job, versus only 80% at district schools.  We want to increase the percentage of students who report that classes encourage them to solve problems in new ways with only 69% of current students agreeing. We are proud that our students feel connected to school at a higher rate than at district schools, 75% at JJMS versus 64% at district schools, however, we want to increase the number of students who feel connected. To improve connectedness, we are increasing counseling services and student activities.  We are relieved that only 7% of our students report being bullied compared to a district average of 16%.|2019-10-17|JJMS requires a very high standard of ethical behavior from staff and students.  We have two full time Behavior Support Coordinators who work under the supervision of the Principal to carefully de-escalate negative peer interactions and to provide logical consequences when students do not meet behavioral expectations. Students who want to report a negative interaction with peers fill out an Incident Report and an investigation will begin within 24 hours This practice discourages students from trying to solve interpersonal conflicts on their own and allows counseling and guidance to help students work together effectively.   We have schoolwide standards for what behavior is considered a minor problem and what behavior constitute a major breach of expectations.  The designation of minor or major is reviewed annually in collaboration with teachers and staff. This prevents the confusion that occurs when one teacher feels that getting out of your seat without permission is a problem while another teacher allows that behavior. All major problems trigger an immediate referral to a Behavior Support Coordinator who will investigate the incident and work with the principal to determine appropriate consequences. The success of these practices is reflected in quantifiable data from district and in-house surveys.   We also believe that our 98% attendance rate is proof that students are comfortable being at school and do not try to avoid attending class.|Met|2019
55723630000000|Jamestown Elementary|6|Jamestown School administered the Healthy Kids Survey ( CHKS) to 5th and 7th grade students to measure school connectedness and safety. The 2018-19 results showed that 63% of students surveyed perceived school as very safe or safe; 56%  felt they had caring adult relationships which is an increase of 22% from last year; 53%  had strong school connectedness which is a 31% increase from last year; 53%  felt  there were high expectations set for them which is a 14% increase from last year. One significant area of concern is the increase of 7th graders surveyed who at 54% have experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness which is an increase of of  12% from the last survey. Reports of alcohol, drug and cigarette use  decreased, but there was an increase in electronic cigarette or vaping from 0%-4%.   We implemented social emotional curriculum, trauma informed practices, and dedicated counseling services last year, all of which helped to contribute to the positive increase in student school connectedness, caring adult relationships, and the feeling that there are high expectations.  We need to continue to monitor and refine clear systems and procedures to address the level of social emotional and behavioral supports and implement more  universal tier I and inclusion strategies within each classroom. These current results inform us that we need to  continue to provide on site counseling and behavior support, and trauma informed practices.  Our work in building positive connections with students is reflected in our results and we will need to continue to emphasize social emotional education. The social emotional digital curriculum will be used more campus wide as both a universal tool and as targeted behavior intervention. We will continue to implement a Universal Screening Tool  to identify those students with moderate to high risk for both externalizing behaviors and internalizing behaviors in order to develop response plans and progress monitor interventions.  The Safe School Ambassador's time has been increased to regularly implement social emotional curriculum in classrooms, facilitate peer mediation, promote positive school culture and build positive peer relationships. We will continue to make regular home visits and intervening early for poor attendance and truancy concerns and actively educate students and families on the importance of attendance. Teachers and staff are continuing to be trained in trauma informed practices. Additional education on drug, alcohol and vaping will be a priority this year for our 6-8th grade.Professional Development opportunities for behavioral management, PBIS, and trauma informed practices will be encouraged and made available. Adjustments within our LCAP goals and District goals have been made to support the changes that are necessary to make an impact on student connectedness and safety.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
37681550000000|Jamul-Dulzura Union Elementary|6|JDUSD cares deeply about student safety and school climate. For many years the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) has been conducted in grades 5 and 7. While we continue to struggle to get to 100% participation in the California Healthy Kids Survey, we have increased to  66% at 5th grade and over 90% at 7th grade.  For the 2018/19 school year the reports show that only 61% in 5th grade and 62% in 7th grade feel connected to school.  We also noticed an increase to 27% of 5th grade students reporting experiencing sadness with 25% of 7th grade students experiencing chronic sadness/hopelessness and even 11% have considered suicide.  With these figures we have increased time with school psychologist supports on the school sites along with contracting with Care Solace to help parents access counseling services.  In December 2018 we launched the Sandy Hook Say Something Anonymous program and have received many reports which the principals and school psychologists have worked directly with students and families in order to meet their needs and concerns. In addition to CHKS our middle school conducted informal student surveys of all students looking at student engagement and found similar data as CHKS.  As part of our work in Differentiated Assistance through the San Diego County Office of Education we looked at our Chronic Absenteeism rates which also increased over the last 2 years. According to the California Dashboard 10.4% of our students were chronically absent in 2017/18.  This year we believe we are on track to be the same or even higher.  We now have systems in place for the 2019-20 school year to help decrease chronic absenteeism.|2019-10-15|In 2018-19 JDUSD, joined the Sandy Hook Say Something Anonymous program, and contracted with Care Solace in order to help families find the supports closest to our community. The middle school has added character education curriculum and a making a Difference Club while the elementary school continues with their anti-bullying materials.|Met|2019
18641050000000|Janesville Union Elementary|6|Based on the results from the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) the following information was obtained: 56% of students feel a sense of school connectedness 73% of students feel academically motivated 57% of students report to have caring adult relationships 70% of students feel that there are high expectations for them. 33% of students feel that there is meaningful participation at the school. 50% of students reported that the school facilities are well maintained. 59% of students feel that there is parent involvement at the school. This information, along with other surveys administered to our students, indicates to us that our students have concerns about bullying. The staff is working in committee to improve the school's climate and promote several activities for building character and reducing bullying as a problem.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19101990106880|Jardin de la Infancia|6||||Not Met|2019
37681630138628|JCS - Cedar Cove|6|1. In the spring JCS-Cedar Cove completed an online survey related to health, safety and school-connectedness. 85% of parents and students responded positively to the survey. Overall parents feel that JCS-Cedar Cove does a good job of supporting students, keeping students safe, and keeping parents informed. Parents feel that JCS has high expectations for students but also that they care for students. Overall students feel that JCS does a good job of keeping them safe and keeping their parents informed. They also feel teachers care about them and have high expectations for them, but also make them feel like they are able to achieve. In all grade bands, students report that bullying is a small problem.   2. Strengths: JCS-Cedar Cove does a good job of making parents and students feel welcome, supported and safe. Parents are well-informed. Bullying continues to be a minor area of need.   3. JCS-Cedar Cove feels an area of growth continues to be focusing on student wellness: teaching kindness and problem solving for younger grades, and teaching students and parents to recognize the signs of bullying and at-risk behavior for upper grades.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37103710138792|JCS - Manzanita|6|1. In the spring JCS-Manzanita completed an online survey related to health, safety and school-connectedness. 85% of parents and students responded positively to the survey. Overall parents feel that JCS-Manzanita does a good job of supporting students, keeping students safe, and keeping parents informed. Parents feel that JCS has high expectations for students but also that they care for students. Overall students feel that JCS does a good job of keeping them safe and keeping their parents informed. They also feel teachers care about them and have high expectations for them, but also make them feel like they are able to achieve. In all grade bands, students report that bullying is a small problem.   2. Strengths: JCS-Manzanita does a good job of making parents and students feel welcome, supported and safe. Parents are well-informed. Bullying continues to be a minor area of need.   3. JCS-Manzanita feels an area of growth continues to be focusing on student wellness: teaching kindness and problem solving for younger grades, and teaching students and parents to recognize the signs of bullying and at-risk behavior for upper grades.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37681630138156|JCS - Mountain Oaks|6|1. In the spring JCS-Mountain Oaks completed an online survey related to health, safety and school-connectedness. 85% of parents and students responded positively to the survey. Overall parents feel that JCS-Mountain Oaks does a good job of supporting students, keeping students safe, and keeping parents informed. Parents feel that JCS has high expectations for students but also that they care for students. Overall students feel that JCS does a good job of keeping them safe and keeping their parents informed. They also feel teachers care about them and have high expectations for them, but also make them feel like they are able to achieve. In all grade bands, students report that bullying is a small problem.   2. Strengths: JCS-Mountain Oaks does a good job of making parents and students feel welcome, supported and safe. Parents are well-informed. Bullying continues to be a minor area of need.   3. JCS-Mountain Oaks feels an area of growth continues to be focusing on student wellness: teaching kindness and problem solving for younger grades, and teaching students and parents to recognize the signs of bullying and at-risk behavior for upper grades.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
33103300138602|JCS - Pine Hills|6|1. In the spring JCS-Pine Hills completed an online survey related to health, safety and school-connectedness. 85% of parents and students responded positively to the survey. Overall parents feel that JCS-Pine Hills does a good job of supporting students, keeping students safe, and keeping parents informed. Parents feel that JCS has high expectations for students but also that they care for students. Overall students feel that JCS does a good job of keeping them safe and keeping their parents informed. They also feel teachers care about them and have high expectations for them, but also make them feel like they are able to achieve. In all grade bands, students report that bullying is a small problem.   2. Strengths: JCS-Pine Hills does a good job of making parents and students feel welcome, supported and safe. Parents are well-informed. Bullying continues to be a minor area of need.   3. JCS-Pine Hills feels an area of growth continues to be focusing on student wellness: teaching kindness and problem solving for younger grades, and teaching students and parents to recognize the signs of bullying and at-risk behavior for upper grades.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37682130138636|JCS - Pine Valley|6|1. In the spring JCS-Pine Valley completed an online survey related to health, safety and school-connectedness. 85% of parents and students responded positively to the survey. Overall parents feel that JCS-Pine Valley does a good job of supporting students, keeping students safe, and keeping parents informed. Parents feel that JCS has high expectations for students but also that they care for students. Overall students feel that JCS does a good job of keeping them safe and keeping their parents informed. They also feel teachers care about them and have high expectations for them, but also make them feel like they are able to achieve. In all grade bands, students report that bullying is a small problem.   2. Strengths: JCS-Pine Valley does a good job of making parents and students feel welcome, supported and safe. Parents are well-informed. Bullying continues to be a minor area of need.   3. JCS-Pine Valley feels an area of growth would be suicide prevention and mental health support for areas of anxiety. Although we have not experienced a student who committed suicide, it has touched our students by family and other outside incidences. It was an area students wanted addressed according to our middle and high school students. Anxiety continues to be an area of need.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
16639176010391|Jefferson Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
35674880000000|Jefferson Elementary|6|Jefferson used local control indicators to identify strengths and needs of the School Climate. The survey results provided the following key learning:  *100% of parents rated the home/school communication as very good to excellent. Parking lot chats and Weekly Friday Folders were continued as the primary mode of two-way communication between home and school.  *100% of parents Agreed or Strongly Agreed that the school makes strong attempts to include parents in decision making.  *100% of parents Agreed or Strongly Agreed that they have frequently participated in giving input into school decisions.  *100% of parents Agreed or Strongly Agreed that the school make strong attempts to include parents in decisions.  The strength of these findings reveal that our small, tight knit community is able to attention to families on a personal, individual level.  The results of the students' survey provided the following key findings:  *100% of students reported that they feel competent, confident, and proud of their accomplishments, have a strong desire to improve and believe that they will continue to increase their achievement *100% of students reported that they like Jefferson School, look forward to coming to school and feel a strong connection to the school.  *100% of students reported they feel respected by the adults and other students at school and that they feel physically and emotionally safe.   *100% of parents and students strongly agreed that the school climate is positive and peaceful where violence and bullying do not occur.  *Suspension and Expulsion rates remain at 0%.  The actions that the LEA needs to implement in response to seeking continuous improvement is to maintain the current climate of Jefferson Elementary and to administer the Healthy Kids Survey in the 2019-2020 school year. The challenge to maintain the climate is that due to the tight-knit nature of the community, if conflict arises for a single individual, it can have a significant, spiraling effect on the entire school. There is a need to continuously monitor, communicate, and support the families in this community.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
39685440000000|Jefferson Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to 5th and 7th grade students. Survey results are presented to all stakeholder groups. This local survey was selected to address Goal Two fostering positive relationships between staff, students, parents, and the community as part of a successful learning environment.   The results revealed that about 90% of elementary students felt strongly that there are high expectations from adults in the school and students are academically motivated. 85% of students feel safe at school but 50% of students have had mean rumors spread about them or been called a bad name at school. 93% of students reported they feel they are treated with respect.   The results for middle school students were slightly lower. As 84% felt high expectations from adults and 81 % felt academically motivated. 70% of students reported they feel safe at school, with 59% said they had mean rumors spread about them and 51% experienced harassment or bullying. Because 35% of students have experienced sadness and 17% have considered suicide, schools will work to offer mental health support to students when needed.   JESD will continue to provide training and support for schools to implement PBIS training, MTSS training, Second Step Program, Bullying and Harassment Prevention Lessons, Peaceful Playgrounds, and mental health services.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
41689160000000|Jefferson Elementary|6|Jefferson Elementary School District conducts an annual survey on Climate to all 3rd-8th grade students.  The survey is also provided to all JESD families and all JESD school site staff. The survey results can be disaggregated through the lens of the District, school sites, and student groups.  Each school includes their data and findings in their Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA). The District results are shared through the Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP). In 2018-2019, 90% of the students responded to the survey, 41% of the families responded to the survey and 100% of the staff responded.  Seventy nine percent of the students felt a sense of belonging and connected to their school.  They also felt that there was a climate of support for learning (76%).  As well, our staff felt a strong sense of belonging and believe that there is a positive climate of support for learning (84% and 89% respectively).  And again, as mentioned in a previous section, 97% of our families felt a climate of support for learning and 94% felt a sense of belonging.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
41689240000000|Jefferson Union High|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey results indicates that only 26% of students agree or strongly agree that they participate in meaningful activities or that they do things that make a difference. The survey reveals that most students feel that they do not have a voice. The District's Student Advisory Board and Student Trustees are helping us voice student concerns. They have helped advocate for improvements in food services and as a result we have contracted with an organization focused on serving healthy and nutritious food. The students are also working alongside staff on examining policies on homework as homework load has been one of the major stressors in our high schools.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
39685856117675|Joe Serna Jr. Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
31668450121418|John Adams Academy|6|To gauge scholar perspectives on school climate, John Adams Academy asked scholars to complete the 2018-19 John Adams Academy - LCAP Scholar School Climate and Engagement Survey. The survey was offered online to scholars in grades 4 through 12 and was designed to assess scholar perspectives on school climate and connectedness. The results of the survey are used to inform updates on the LCAP and to assist leadership and administration in continuing to provide a collaborative and supportive environment. A summary of key findings for Elementary is as follows: • 95% of scholars surveyed responded that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 88% of scholars stated they are taught self-governance and personal responsibility to help guide their actions. • 80% stated that adults at the Academy help scholars resolve conflict with one another. • 76% of scholars stated that they are often rewarded for living the 10 Core Values. A summary of key findings for Middle School are as follows: • 70% of scholars surveyed indicate that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 53% of scholars stated that staff uses the core values to help solve conflicts between scholars. • 70% stated the Academy communicates the importance of building a culture of greatness. A summary of key findings for High School are as follows: • 70% of scholars surveyed indicate that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 47% of scholars believe that the staff uses the core values to help solve conflicts between scholars. • 77% believe the Academy communicates the importance of building a culture of greatness. Scholars identified a desire for more information on the benefits of attending John Adams Academy at the next grade span, receiving more information on assessments from teachers, and increasing formal mentoring programming as areas of growth. Administration and leadership will continue to review the results of these surveys to inform local decision-making. Increased emotional/social supports, increased EL, implemented intervention block for all grades, early indicators show growth in critical areas...data review teams, GLAD training and implementation, quarterly parent curriculum and social/emotional training, increased partnerships with community supports for families,|2019-10-10||Met|2019
09100900136036|John Adams Academy - El Dorado Hills|6|To gauge scholar perspectives on school climate, John Adams Academy asked scholars to complete the 2018-19 John Adams Academy - LCAP Scholar School Climate and Engagement Survey. The survey was offered online to scholars in grades 4 through 8 and was designed to assess scholar perspectives on school climate and connectedness. The results of the survey are used to inform updates to the LCAP and to assist leadership and administration in continuing to provide a collaborative and supportive environment. A summary of key findings for elementary are as follows:  • 94% of scholars surveyed responded that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 88% of scholars stated they are taught self-governance and personal responsibility to help guide their actions • 87% stated that adults at the Academy help scholars resolve conflict with one another. • 93% of scholars stated that they are often rewarded for living the 10 Core Values.  A summary of key findings for middle school are as follows:  • 98% of scholars surveyed indicate that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 70% of scholars stated that staff uses the core values to help resolve conflict between scholars. • 58% indicated that scholars are often rewarded for living the Core Values.  Themes for growth identified in the survey included scholar desire for more feedback on their tests and assessments, being provided more information on the benefits of attending John Adams Academy - El Dorado Hills in the next grade span, and the need to finish the construction of the gym (Completed). Administration and leadership will continue to review the results of these surveys to inform local decision-making.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
31669510135871|John Adams Academy - Lincoln|6|To gauge scholar perspectives on school climate, John Adams Academy asked scholars to complete the 2018-19 John Adams Academy - LCAP Scholar School Climate and Engagement Survey. The survey was offered online to scholars in grades 4 through 7 and was designed to assess scholar perspectives on school climate and connectedness. The results of the survey are used to inform updates to the LCAP and to assist leadership and administration in continuing to provide a collaborative and supportive environment. A summary of key findings for elementary are as follows:  • 94% of scholars surveyed responded that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 91% of scholars stated they are taught self-governance and personal responsibility to help guide their actions. • 82.6% agree that adults at the Academy help scholars resolve conflict with one another. • 78% of scholars stated that they are often rewarded for living the 10 Core Values.  A summary of key findings for middle school are as follows: • 83% of scholars surveyed indicate that the teachers and staff model the 10 Core Values. • 75% of scholars stated that adults at the academy treat all scholars with respect. • 92% of scholars indicate that teachers expect high standards of excellence from all scholars.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
31669280121418|John Adams Academy - Roseville|6|To gauge scholar perspectives on school climate, John Adams Academy asked scholars to complete the 2018-19 John Adams Academy - LCAP Scholar School Climate and Engagement Survey. The survey was offered online to scholars in grades 4 through 12 and was designed to assess scholar perspectives on school climate and connectedness. The results of the survey are used to inform updates on the LCAP and to assist leadership and administration in continuing to provide a collaborative and supportive environment. A summary of key findings for Elementary is as follows: • 95% of scholars surveyed responded that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 88% of scholars stated they are taught self-governance and personal responsibility to help guide their actions. • 80% stated that adults at the Academy help scholars resolve conflict with one another. • 76% of scholars stated that they are often rewarded for living the 10 Core Values. A summary of key findings for Middle School are as follows: • 70% of scholars surveyed indicate that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 53% of scholars stated that staff uses the core values to help solve conflicts between scholars. • 70% stated the Academy communicates the importance of building a culture of greatness. A summary of key findings for High School are as follows: • 70% of scholars surveyed indicate that the Academy is a supportive and inviting place to learn. • 47% of scholars believe that the staff uses the core values to help solve conflicts between scholars. • 77% believe the Academy communicates the importance of building a culture of greatness. Scholars identified a desire for more information on the benefits of attending John Adams Academy at the next grade span, receiving more information on assessments from teachers, and increasing formal mentoring programming as areas of growth. Administration and leadership will continue to review the results of these surveys to inform local decision-making. Increased emotional/social supports, increased EL, implemented intervention block for all grades, early indicators show growth in critical areas...data review teams, GLAD training and implementation, quarterly parent curriculum and social/emotional training, increased partnerships with community supports for families,|2019-10-10||Met|2019
49708056111066|John B. Riebli Elementary|6|The Climate Survey, which was developed by the school site councils and aligned with the BEST program, a Parent Survey, discipline data and counselor’s data, indicate that students increased access to needed supports at school in the 2018-2019 school year.  There was an increased level of school counseling requested on behalf of students, which appears to be related to the wildfires experienced during the previous school year.  Yet, positive school-wide behavior support systems appear to be working, as instances of bullying behavior did not show an increase.  Schools will continue to effectively use the counseling program (at least one counselor/intern available at schools daily), Second Step violence prevention program, Tool Box program, and the Building Effective Schools Together school climate framework to maintain a positive school climate.  Given the recurrence of wildfires in October 2019, it is expected to create an increased ongoing school counseling need for students.  Additional counselor interns will be sought during the spring of 2020, in an effort to expand the program to address ongoing student counseling needs.|2019-12-04||Met|2019
07617960132233|John Henry High|6|Annually JHHS administers an anonymous school climate survey though our advisory classes to collect data and inform our practices. Site leadership, regional superintendents, and other home office staff work to review aggregate data with site-based staff and discuss survey results, trends, and get a deeper understanding of staff’s perspective to develop remedies for problems of practice. JHHS students know that their school is taking their education seriously. Over half of them agree the school does what it can to help them reach their educational goals. Additionally, students are aware of what it is they need to do to get to college. More than half agree that they are well informed of what is necessary to graduate “college ready.” This is evident in 93% of students being accepted to a four year university. It is clear that the culture at JHHS has improved over the last year. The percentage of students feeling safe and the percentage of students who think that teachers are taking student differences into consideration are higher than last year. Overall, respect and a supportive environment is rapidly rebuilding. One area that we are continuing to improve on is the variety in after school programs and sports offerings. We are aiming to ensure that students feel part of a cohesive school environment and a safe and supportive school climate.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
39685690132415|John McCandless Charter|6|John McCandless Charter School (JMC) opened in 2015 with only kindergarten through third grade aged students. The school has since expanded and now has grades TK through 8. JMC administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in 2018. Results serve to measure the school and the district's progress on state priority six - School Climate.  In the area of school engagement and supports, results showed the following: Grade 5 -  School Connectedness: 51% Academic Motivation: 67% Caring Adult Relationships: 59% Meaningful Participation: 19% The number shows the average percentage of students responding "yes all the time" or at the secondary level "strongly agree" or "very much true".  In the area of school safety the results are the following: Grade 5 - Feel Safe/Perceive School as Safe 88% of students rated this high In addition, families participated in an LCAP survey in January of 2019. 97% of families noted that they felt JMC was a safe learning environment. 96% stated that they feel welcomed at JMC. Parents noted that JMC facilities are in good condition, their students are being held to a high academic standard and students are held to high behavior standards, These results are consistent with our expectations.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
29102982930147|John Muir Charter|6|In the 2018-19 school year, JMCS students, staff and client agency partners had a chance to express their opinions about being a part of the JMCS team through our school climate surveys. We had an overwhelming response to the surveys, with 497 students (91% of ADA), 62 staff members (91% of salaried staff) and 15 partner agencies (43%) participating. 88% of staff and 83% of students feel that JMCS is meeting or definitely meeting Goal Two. 95% of staff always or sometimes feel safe at work (85% always feel safe, 10% sometimes feel safe) and 98% of students always or sometimes feel safe at school (92% always, 6% sometimes). 99% of students feel welcome at school and 94% of staff feel connected to the larger JMCS community. 92% of students feel like they have a voice in decision making at their site and 69% feel that there is a positive school culture at their site. Staff feelings of safety have decreased slightly since last year; however, staff feelings of being connected to the larger JMCS community have risen. This partly is related to the current times and recent acts of school violence that affected perceptions of school safety. JMCS will continue to ensure all staff complete safety drills and required safety trainings. The increase in feelings of being connected is indicative of strong communication and meaningful professional development days that give staff a chance to build relationships. In addition, ADA and attrition rates have remained steady which is an indicator that students are satisfied with programming. JMCS will continue to offer the school climate survey and aims to do so annually in March for all future school years. We will work to ensure the survey continues to align with our LCAP goals and the state priority areas.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
07616970000000|John Swett Unified|6|JSUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11.   This survey captures a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Response rates ranged from 48% of possible respondents in grade 5, to 85% in grade 7, 73% in grade 9, and 64% in grade 11.   Response rates at the middle school and high school were high enough to produce results in a School Climate Report Card.  The middle school’s School Climate Index (SCI) for school connectedness is 168 on a scale of 100 to 500, and its overall SCI for feelings about school safety is 154.  The middle school’s overall School Climate Index (SCI) is 257.  The high school’s school connectedness rating is 247, while perceived school safety shows an SCI of 250.  The overall School Climate Index for the high school is 217.  While the elementary school responses were not great enough (50% of possible respondents is required) to produce a School Climate Report Card,  we can look at scores as reported by those students who did respond.  At Rodeo Hills, on questions related to school connectedness, 61% of students responded “yes” most or all of the time, and on safety related questions, 54% responded feeling safe at school most or all of the time.  Bullying and harassment by students has become more of an issue over the past three years at both the high school and middle school, as reported in the School Climate Report Card.  The middle school’s SCI on the issue of bullying is 145 (on the same scale of 100 to 500).  The high school’s SCI on harassment and bullying is 198.  It is evident to the District that improvements are needed.  At the District’s administrative retreat held prior to the start of school, these findings were shared with the administrative team.  Each school’s report was made available to the administrators to be used with each staff.  Discussions have been held about what kinds of programs, services, teacher training, and supports will make a difference to improve conditions for students, and changes are being made.  The District is providing professional development for all staff on becoming trauma-informed, and on learning to use strategies that will provide support and education for students.  All District staff members are receiving training on the implementation of restorative practices, including community circles to help bring about positive changes in students’ thinking and actions. Professional development cycles focusing on school climate occur at each site, and the Parent Advisory Council is bringing parent voices into the work. The teachers’ union has started a Racial Equity Task Force to address these and other issues.  Programs such as Leader in Me, at Rodeo Hills, and AVID (Advancement Via Individual Determination) at all District sites are being implemented to help bring about positive actions and mindset shifts among students.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
18641130000000|Johnstonville Elementary|6|Data: The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to both elementary school and middle school-age students. Participation in the survey is voluntary and anonymous. The elementary school survey indicates the following information: the percentage of harassment/bullying/spreading rumors has decreased 32%, positive adult-student relationships have increase 2%, and school connectedness has decreased 1% when compared to the 2017-18 school year.   Meaning: The California Healthy Kids Survey was not administered to the middle school students during the 2017-18 school year. This makes it difficult to determine the year-to-year reduction or increase in these categories for the 6th-8th grade student survey results. As such, the comparison that follows will be for the 2016-17 and 2018-19 school years. The middle school survey indicates the following information: the level of chronic sadness/hopelessness has increased 13%, the percentage of harassment/bullying/spreading rumors has decreased 8%, and the level of school connectedness has decreased 3%.  USe: The significant decrease of harassment/bullying/spreading rumors among students is an excellent area of strength over the past few years. Johnstonville Elementary School District has concentrated on developing a safe environment this past school year and the students appear to been increasing their social skills. The District has also placed an emphasis on making strong connections with students. It appears from the data that this area of focus has experienced a nearly neutral and/or slightly negative growth during the past year. One potential reason for this is the data could be the changing of the superintendent/principal just before the survey was taken. Another potential barrier could be that the survey was taken at the beginning of the school year, before the efforts to build strong school and student connections had taken a firm holding. Finally, a troubling concern is the increased middle school student responses in the area chronic sadness/hopelessness. This is a deep concern for Johnstonville Elementary School District staff especially in the wake of the recently nation-wide increase in teen suicide rate.  As a result of the California Healthy Kids Survey, the District has identified an area of growth that staff would like to concentrate on moving forward. The first area of growth is developing a stronger student connection with the school. After meeting with stakeholders, some of the steps that will be taking in the near future include: 1) continuing the Parent Appreciation activities in an attempt to provide ways for families to become more active in their children’s school life, 2) helping students develop useful academic, emotional, and social skills through a comprehensive Multi-Tier System of Supports (MTSS), and 3) providing professional development for staff and teachers that specifically examines ways to assist students cognitively, socially, and emotionally.|2019-05-15||Met|2019
30664646117758|Journey|6|N/A - Journey is a charter school and based on an analysis of the underlying charter petition, this indicator does not apply as the indicator is not articulated or specified as one of the Charter's specific outcomes.|2019-10-28|N/A - Journey is a charter school and based on an analysis of the underlying charter petition, this indicator does not apply as the indicator is not articulated or specified as one of the Charter's specific outcomes.  Journey School administered University of Michigan’s Monitoring the Future survey to students in 8th grade in Spring 2019. The survey results provided Journey with information about the learning and teaching environment, the health and well-being of students, and what supports are needed to foster positive school climate, learning and school success.  Students indicated that access to extracurricular activities and special interest clubs, and access to counseling and support groups were a benefit of attending Journey School.  The majority of students shared that they felt safe and cared for by their peers and staff members.  Student input has been a strong driver of the many changes now in place for the current school year, including adding a school counselor to our staff, developing a positive behavior intervention system (PBIS), teaching character traits through our school acronym RESPECT and further developing "clubs" in our middle school program for students to connect with other students who may have a shared interest.|Met|2019
33103300138024|Journey|6||||Not Met|2019
33103300137851|Julia Lee Performing Arts Academy|6|The school climate survey will be completed by families at the end of the semester.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
37681633731239|Julian Charter|6|1. In the spring JCS  completed an online survey related to health, safety and school-connectedness. 85% of parents and students responded positively to the survey. Overall parents feel that JCS does a good job of supporting students, keeping students safe, and keeping parents informed. Parents feel that JCS has high expectations for students but also that they care for students. Overall students feel that JCS does a good job of keeping them safe and keeping their parents informed. They also feel teachers care about them and have high expectations for them, but also make them feel like they are able to achieve. In all grade bands, students report that bullying is a small problem.   2. Strengths: JCS does a good job of making parents and students feel welcome, supported and safe. Parents are well-informed. Students are provided with online classes related to cyber bullying and the importance of proper netiquette online.  Parents and students sign acceptable use agreements, and are given Common Sense Media lessons to review as a family regarding bullying and other cyber security issues.  3. JCS-LIVE feels an area of growth continues to be focusing on student wellness: teaching kindness and problem solving for younger grades, and teaching students and parents to recognize the signs of bullying and at-risk behavior for upper grades.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37681630000000|Julian Union Elementary|6|Survey data shows that we share a close relationship with our families and that overall our students feel safe at school.  Survey and other resources show a need for student tutoring or academic support in the all grade levels.  Teachers working with our after school program have redesigned our tutoring program to target students needs daily and give support before they go home.  At the elementary school teachers have designed an academy time to target student's areas of weaknesses.  Data also shows issues with Bullying on both campuses.  It has gotten better, but still persists.  The elementary school teachers have trained in Circles of Equity to help students learn empathy and work better together.  At the junior high school students and staff participated in Rachel's Challenge to learn to understand and accept each other.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
37681710000000|Julian Union High|6|Based on District's LCAP survey, 57.9% of students feel safe at school and 45.3% of students feel connected at school.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
53717380000000|Junction City Elementary|6|Junction City Elementary recognizes the importance of having a positive school climate in order to ensure student wellbeing and success.  Junction City Elementary administers an annual School Survey to all students and their families to solicit information about how students feel about school. The results of our 2019 School Survey indicated that 100% of our students feel welcome at the school, 95% of our students feel a sense of belonging and connectedness at the school, and 93% of our students they feel safe at school.  In addition, 95% of students said that they have positive relationships with adults at school, and 93% of students said that they have positive relationships with other students at school.   These results were presented to the School Site Council/LCAP Advisory Committee, and to the Governing Board in the spring of 2019. The data will be used to determine progress toward meeting LCAP Goal 3: Ensure a safe, welcoming and inclusive climate for all students and their families, so that all students are in their classes and ready to learn. The results of the surveys indicated that we are making positive progress toward our LCAP goal 3, and we feel confident that our students feel that they are welcome, connected, and safe at school.  One concern is that past surveys indicated that 100% of students felt safe at school, and now only 93% of students feel safe at school.  In the fall of 2018, school staff were trained in ALICE Active Shooter training, and protective devices called LockBloks were installed on all doors.  These actions, along with the many mass shootings that occurred and were covered on the media, have triggered many questions and concerns regarding safety at school.  Although our students generally feel safe, they recognize that threat that active shooters pose to any school, including ours.  We will continue to do our best to ensure the safety of our students, even if the government doesn’t make any effort to protect our students from gun violence.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
45700450000000|Junction Elementary|6|DATA: Overall students feel safe and supported by staff in order to reach their full potential both academically and socially. 88% of students feel respected by their teachers.  MEANING: Strengths: Teachers respect students and support students. There are very low numbers of bullying incidences. Areas for growth:  Students identified that we could improve in student to student relationships through behavior systems, mutual respect and resolving disagreements.   Challenges: Not all staff have received professional development in Positive Behavior Intervention Systems. This creates a lack of consistency and lack of common language between the staff. Barriers: The cost of training teachers is often a barrier for our small budget.  USE: We believe that we need to continue to implement Mr. Brown's system of teaching students how to "choose well" and increase professional development for our teachers that have not been exposed to our Positive Behavior Intervention Systems.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
47703670000000|Junction Elementary|6|Junction Elementary is a small single school district, which we only have eight families. All of the surveys returned showed that all of the families felt welcome at our school, the school was a safe environment, and that they were communicated with. The one area for improvement showed in the electives that are provided by the school, which the district is working on.|2019-09-18||Met|2019
33670900000000|Jurupa Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered every two years in grades 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th with current results from 2018-19.  We also administer an LCAP Parent, Staff, and Student survey to all stakeholders in the LCAP process on Goal 2 of the LCAP on Safe, Orderly, and Inviting environments on an annual basis.  On the California Health Kids Survey (CHKS), 5th grade data results reflect 75% of our students feel connected to school, 75% have a caring relationship at school, and 87% feel adults at school have high expectations for them.  At the secondary level for Grades 7, 9, and 11, 68%, 58%, 52%, respectively, report they feel connected to school, and having caring adult relationships at school 66%, 59%, 57%, respectively. We hope to continue maintaining a culture of high expectations and caring environment through continued and expanded Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) support.  This year, all high schools will have an advisory program to help address these secondary student needs. The CHKS will be re-administered in two years, Fall 2020.  Relative to the district’s LCAP baseline survey data, parents indicated feeling extremely safe to moderately safe 87.55% (+2.55%), students 78.43% (+4.42%), and staff 66.43% (+2.6).  Open ended responses indicated data is reflective of written comments of concern for handling student discipline and better behavior intervention strategies.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
19647336017693|Justice Street Academy Charter|6|One hundred twenty-one students in grades 4 & 5 completed the 2018-19 School Experience Survey, which equals 100% participation. Justice St. Academy Charter administered the 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 4th and 5th graders. The participation rate for this survey was 100%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the percent of students indicating Agree and Strongly Agree are noted next to the question. • Are you happy to be at this school? 91% • Do you feel like you are part of this school? 84% • Do you feel close to people at this school? 79% • Do you feel safe at this school? 90%|2019-10-29||Met|2019
48705730129494|Kairos Public School Vacaville Academy|6|The Kairos Board of Directors annually develops and adopts measurable board goals. Progress towards these goals is monitored and reported out in public board meetings throughout the school year. Kairos Public School provides all its stakeholders a survey on a yearly basis. The results of the survey have shown 93% of parents feel Kairos is challenging them to improve. 95% of families feel their child is well-prepared for the next grade level. Kairos has made investments in the development of a Scholar Ambassador Program, an opportunity for students to serve the school and have a voice in the decision- making process of Kairos. In addition, Kairos offers a variety of clubs and enrichment activities in helping create a positive school culture. The school believes in voice and choice of its stakeholders at all age levels. The surveys provided to our families have assisted us in adding additional support staff to meet the needs of our scholars. 95% of staff report they are satisfied working at Kairos Public Schools. Over 92% of staff reported that Kairos clearly conveys its mission to its team members and approximately 91% of staff reported they feel they have the training needed to do their job. The Board of Directors has adopted a yearly board agenda calendar which schedules reports from every stakeholder group on an annual basis. This is an opportunity to have their voice heard throughout the organization.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
49708880000000|Kashia Elementary|6|Due to the nature of the reservation, most written surveys are not returned to school. With an average of 6 to 8 families and 12 to 15 students, most surveys are done in person. Issues with safety and school climate are taken seriously and dealt with promptly once the school is notified of an issue. Students feel safe at school and parents are quick to voice any concerns they have.|2019-08-14|Most families have adults in their household, who did not finish their education. Kashia continues to celebrate all accomplishments made by current and prior students.|Met|2019
37683380126730|Kavod Charter|6|We believe nurturing a positive school culture requires us to establish multiple opportunities for stakeholders to voice their concerns in a myriad of ways. Parents are able to provide feedback via an annual survey, KPC meetings, suggestion box and Parent Board Representative. Explorers have the ability to voice their opinions via the Healthy Kids Survey every year and through student-led committees that oversee some school events. To promote a culture of safety and respect, Kavod middle school explorers serve as ambassadors to the elementary grades prior to school starting and the Peace Patrol serves year round to help reinforce Kavod values.   In addition, Kavod families meet bi-weekly to reinforce the monthly value they’re learning about. Kavod families are mixed groups of about 20-22 explorers from all grades. They get together and do activities that connect to a value so that it manifests school wide. As Kavod means ‘respect’ in Hebrew, the first month and a half explorers learns the various aspects of what it means to be a respectful citizen and ways to put that in action.   As per the latest student survey, below are some highlights:  -100% of students felt teachers treated them fairly some or most of the time. -100% of students felt groups treated students with respect some of most of the time. -98% of students felt staff help students resolve conflicts with one another some or most of the time. -100% of students felt the school teaches students to care about one another and treat each other with respect some of most of the time.  As per the latest parent survey, below are some highlights:  -100% of parents stated that Kavod provides adequate support for student academic growth. -98% of parents stated that they were satisfied with the Kavod program.  -100% of parents stated Kavod creates a culture that values and encourages diversity and global awareness. -96% of parents stated that they believe parent involvement and input is welcome at the school.  To provide consistent oversight, Kavod allows stakeholders multiple opportunities throughout the year which collectively shape our LCAP up through its final stage before it’s brought to the board.|2019-09-11|The general culture of the program is positive and held in high esteem by families which has resulted in the majority of new applicants be referred by current Kavod parents. Their positive experience and understanding of the program has been resounding in the community.|Met|2019
37683386039812|Keiller Leadership Academy|6|1. DATA: Based on California Healthy Kids Survey- Selected Student-Reported School Climate Measures (CHKS) • Try hard on school work – “agree” or “strongly agree” that I try hard to make sure I am good at school work. • Truant more than a few times – skipped or cut classes more than a few times in the past 12 months. • Feel a part of the school – “agree” or “strongly agree” that I am a part of this school. • Safety at school – feel “safe” or “very safe” when I am at school. • Harassed or bullied at school – harassed or bullied on school property in past 12 months for any of the following reasons: (a) race, ethnicity, or national origin; (b) religion; (c) gender; (d) gay or lesbian or someone thought you were; (e) physical or mental disability. • Parents feel welcome to participate at this school – “agree” or “strongly agree” that parents feel welcome to participate at this school. • School is usually clean and tidy – “agree” or “strongly agree” that school is usually clean and tidy. • Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness – felt sad or hopeless almost every day for two weeks or more during the past 12 months. Selected Staff-Reported School Climate Measures (CSSS) • Students are motivated to learn – “strongly agree” that students at this school are motivated to learn. • Truancy is moderate/severe problem – cutting classes or being truant is a “moderate” or “severe” problem at this school. • School is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn – “strongly agree” that this school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn. • School is a supportive and inviting place for staff to work – “strongly agree” that this school is a supportive and inviting place for staff to work. • School is a safe place for students – “strongly agree” that this school is a safe place for students. • Harassment/bullying is moderate/severe problem – harassment and bullying among students is a “moderate” or “severe” problem at this school. • School is welcoming to and facilitates parental involvement – “strongly agree” that this school is welcoming to and facilitates parental involvement. • School has clean and well-maintained facilities – “strongly agree” that this school has clean and well-maintained facilities and property. 2. MEANING: Overall, KLA's challenges in regards to school climate is less than the state average.   3. USE: KLA will continue to use the surveys to gauge the temperature of the school climate.  In the meantime, KLA will maintain a strong focus on social-emotional interventions based on a multi-tiered systems of support approach, as the outcomes correlate with the specific plans of action.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
17640140000000|Kelseyville Unified|6|In 2018-19, Kelseyville USD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to all students in grades 5, and 7-12.  As reported in the Kelseyville USD 2019-20 Local Control Accountability Plan Annual Update, The 2018-­19 California Healthy Kids Survey showed that 84.0% of respondents said they feel "Highly Connected" or "Moderately Connected" to their school.  In addition, 63.6% of respondents indicated they feel "Very Safe" or "Safe" at school.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647336017701|Kenter Canyon Elementary Charter|6|The School Experience Survey participation rate was as follows: Parents 79%, Students 97%, Staff 100%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the percentage of agreement by students: 1. Are you happy to be at this school? 94% 2. Do you feel like you are a part of this school? 88% 3. If you told a teacher or other adult at this school that another student was bullying you, would they try to help you? 90% 4. Do you feel safe at this school?  96% 5. Do teachers care if you are absent from school? 81% 6. Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 88% 7. Do you feel safe in the neighborhood around this school? 90% 8. For the most part are kids at this school kind to each other? 77% 9. Do adults at this school treat students with respect? 93% 10. Do teachers recognize students who are kind or helpful? 92% 11. Overall Connectedness and Safety: 90% In order to assess whether parents felt that the school sought input from them in decision-making and promoted their participation in programs, the following questions were reviewed.  The percentage of parents who indicated Strongly Agree or Agree are noted next to the question. 1.    I am a partner with this school in decisions made about my child’s education.  88% 2.    I feel welcome to participate in this school.  99% 3.    This school encourages me to participate in organized parent groups (councils/committees/parent organizations, etc.).  97% 4.    This school provides me with information (verbal and written) I can understand. 99% 5.    This school informs parents about school activities in different ways (letters, emails, phone calls, posters, flyers, etc.) 99% 6.    This school informs parents about school activities in a timely fashion.  99% 7.    This school provides opportunities to help me support my child’s learning. 93%  Priority 6 Criteria: Standard Met|2019-10-24|Kenter Canyon ECS prides itself on parent engagement and proudly collaborates with its parents and community to seek sustainable progress in areas that make a difference in the future of students.|Met|2019
21653340000000|Kentfield Elementary|6|Local Climate Survey Summary In the Spring of 2018, students in grades 3-8 participated in the second administration of the Youth Truth Survey. Youth Truth was chosen because it taps into the school experience for all stakeholders on measures other than academic achievement such as Relationships, Respect for Students, Culture, and Respect for Different Backgrounds. Due to a change in which survey fifth graders were given (elementary this year versus middle last year) we have year-over-year data only for 6th-8th graders. Relationship measures: 81% of 3-5 students report having strong, supportive relationships with their teachers. 46% of 6-8 students feel they receive support and personal attention from their teachers, an increase of 4% over 2018. Respect for students measures: 87% of 3-5 students report their teachers treat them with respect. 75% of 6-8 students report that most adults treat them with respect, an increase of 15% over 2018. Culture measures: 37% of 3-5 students experience an orderly, respectful classroom environment. 54% of 6-8 students believe that their school fosters a culture of respect and fairness, an increase of 13% over 2018. Respect for different backgrounds measures: 92% of 3-5 students think adults in their school respect people from different backgrounds. 85% of 6-8 students think adults in their school respect people from different backgrounds, an increase of 7% over 2018. The positive trend in the responses from 6th-8th graders is encouraging. It will be important to see if a similar upward trend is seen with our 3rd-5th graders on this year's assessment.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
49707890000000|Kenwood|6||||Not Met|2019
10101080127514|Kepler Neighborhood|6|Last year, a broad family survey was conducted.  Students, almost half, were reported as feeling bullied or unsafe at school. School climate survey administered to all students sought feedback in school safety, teacher quality, and school culture.  The survey went to all students grades k-8. No student reported that they felt unsafe at school.  75% of students reported feeling safe all or most of the time.  However, 25% of students reported only feeling safe some of the time.  80% of students reflected that their teachers like them, and they believe they can speak to this teacher if they have a problem.  Each day students are greeted by staff with music, high fives and dancing.    We need to survey our students again concerning when they feel unsafe.  This data needs to include where and when students feel unsafe and what contributes to that feeling.  While the school has improved in the past year concerning student culture and feeling safe, we still need to work to improve this area.  We are creating a peer mediation group to support this effort.  We will survey our students again next quarter and hope to find improvement.  While we are glad no students feel unsafe all the time, we want students to feel safe all the time.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19646420000000|Keppel Union Elementary|6|An analysis of a local climate survey was completed utilizing the Healthy Kids Survey which was administered in the 2018-2019 school year.   The overall District School Climate Index was inclusive of 7th grade students (69).  There was not enough student survey results conducted in 5th grade to report.  DATA School Engagement and Supports  Statement  7th Grade Percent School connectedness 72 Academic motivation 80 Caring adult relationships 70 High expectations 86 Meaningful participation 33 Chronic truancy (twice a month or more often) 4 Facilities upkeep 64 Parent Involvement at School 71 School Safety & Substance Abuse  Statement  7th Grade Percent Feel safe at school 75 Experienced any harassment or bullying 35 Mean rumors or lies spread about you 54 Saw a weapon at school 42 Been afraid of being beaten up 28 Been in a physical fight 28 Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 3 Mental & Physical Health  Statement  7th Grade Percent Current alcohol or drug use 7 Current binge drinking 5 Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times 1 Current cigarette smoking 2 Current electronic cigarette use 5 Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 33  MEANING: AREAS OF STRENGTH SCHOOL ENGAGEMENT Students 80% or higher: • Feel a sense of connectedness with their teachers and school personnel • Are motivated academically • Have caring relationships with adults at school • Feel that teachers and personnel have high expectations of them. and • Do not have chronic truancy (96%) AREAS OF STRENGTH SCHOOL SAFETY  • Few students have been drunk or high at school (3%)  MENTAL & PHYSICAL HEALTH Less than 3% of students: • Do not report to school very drunk (99%) • Are not current cigarette smokers (98%) CHALLENGES SCHOOL ENGAGEMENT Students less than79%: • Do not feel that the school offers meaning participation (33%) • Believe the schools need to have better facilities upkeep (64%), and • Do not have as much parent involvement (71%) CHALLENGES SCHOOL SAFETY  • Feel safe at school (75%) • Have experienced harassment or bullying (65%) • Have had rumors or lies spread about them *45%) • Have seen a weapon at school (58%) • Have been afraid of being beaten up (72%), and • Have been in a physical fight (72%) MENTAL & PHYSICAL HEALTH • Currently use alcohol or drugs  (7%) • Currently binge drink (5%) • Currently use electronic cigarettes (5%), and  • Have experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness (33%) USE How will the district use the data to implement a response to the challenges the district faces?|2019-11-14||Met|2019
10739990000000|Kerman Unified|6|KUSD collects data from the annual District parent survey. All parents in the district have access to complete the survey, which is available in English and Spanish. New this year, KUSD students will participate in the California Student Tobacco Survey. KUSD also uses data from the Healthy Kids Survey, which is utilized every other year. It was given was 2017-2018; it is scheduled for 2019-2020. The Healthy Kids Survey was completed in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grades, as well as by staff and parents. The strengths reflected in the surveys include that parents feel well-informed of what is going on in the schools and that students have many opportunities to be involved in co and extracurricular activities. An area of focus continues to be the lack of or outdated facilities due to continuing growth of the District. The District has a long-term plan to update and build classrooms and other facilities over the next several years.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
15101570000000|Kern County Office of Education|6|The Alternative Education program annually administers the LCAP survey in order to capture students' sense of safety and connectedness.    Results from the 2019 LCAP survey: • 72.8% of students feel safe at school, with an additional 15.2% being undecided (The 2018 LCAP survey reported these percentages at 73.9% and 10.8%, respectively.) • 72.2% of students indicated they feel respected and valued by school staff, with an additional 13.7% being undecided (The 2018 LCAP survey reported these percentages as 73.4% and 13.6%, respectively.) • 50.8% of students agree they look forward to attending school each day, with an additional 18.7% being undecided (The 2018 LCAP survey reported these percentages as 55.1% and 13.6%, respectively.) • 69.5% of students reported there is at least one adult at their school with whom they have a positive connection/relationship, with an additional 13.9% being undecided (This question was new to the 2019 LCAP survey.)  When compared to the 2018 LCAP survey, the 2019 LCAP survey results show similar percentages related to students feeling safe at school and feeling respected and valued by school staff.  There was a slight dip in the percentage of students who indicate they look forward to attending school each day.  In order to address safety and connectedness issues, the Alternative Education program will continue to implement Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS).  PBIS creates structures to allow relationships with students to be fostered through respect and engagement.  The program continues to provide professional development for staff in this area and an expansion of the PBIS program to include multiple tiers of support at all school sites is in process.  In addition, the Alternative Education program plans to provide professional development related to Trauma Informed Care in order to provide staff the supports needed to best work with students who have been impacted by trauma in their lives.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
15635290000000|Kern High|6|In 2018-2019, 80% of grade 9 and 64% of grade 11 students in the Kern High School District (KHSD) took the voluntary California Healthy Kids Survey and most students in grades 9-12 took a local school climate survey in the fall and spring. A local family survey was completed by 2,912 parents. These surveys provide insight to allow KHSD staff to make decisions about how to provide better support for all students, progress monitor programs, and inform stakeholders and the community.  Student response to school safety revealed that 52% of students in grade 9, an increase of 4% compared to 2017-18, responded favorably to “How safe do you feel when you are at school?” while 53% of students in grade 11, an increase of 8% compared to 2017-18, responded favorably. 88% of parent respondents, an increase of 3% compared to 2017-18, agreed with the statement, “My student feels safe at school.” The percentage of students who report alcohol or drug use increased by 1% while binge drinking within the last 30 days stayed the same amongst grade 9 and grade 11 student. The percentage of students who have considered suicide decreased by 1% in both groups and those who have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness increased by 3% amongst grade 11 students with females reporting chronic sadness/hopelessness at a rate 10-12% higher than males in grades 9 and 11. Reports of harassment/bullying continue to decrease by 3-4% amongst grade 9 and 11 students. Over the past 5 years, KHSD has allocated additional support staff to work with students, including those who are in need of additional mental health and/or substance abuse support. KHSD promotes suicide awareness, education, and prevention with staff, students, and families in an effort to educate them about suicide and understand what help is available. KHSD conducts student focus groups regarding differences in student group responses to address concerns. External coaches consult with school leaders and assist them in delving deeper into the student/family/staff perceptions and school systems in place, including school safety, mental health, and substance abuse support.  Regarding school connectedness, 55% of grade 9 students reported “agree” or “strongly agree”  while students in grade 11 reported 54%, an increase of 2% compared to 2017-18. The percentage of Hispanic and African-American students who selected the highest rating of school connectedness is 2-6% lower than the average for the same rating for grades 9 and 11. 64% of parent respondents, an increase of 2% compared to 2017-18, agree that there is “quite a bit of respect” to  “a tremendous amount of respect” between students and teachers. Schools within KHSD continue to strengthen school climate and student/staff connectedness through the continued implementation of the Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports Framework along with Multi-Tiered Systems of Support and Social-Emotional Learning.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
15635291530435|Kern Workforce 2000 Academy|6|Data collected through school staff, faculty, and student surveys on culture and climate & Annual LCAP Parent Survey.  Areas of Celebration: Perceptions of positive peer interactions have increased 16% over 2017-18. Optimism about the continuous improvement of the school has increased by 14% over 2017-18 Mutual respect between students and teachers increased 5% over 2017-18 – 88% responding favorably  Areas of Growth Continue to increase perception of school safety and school connectedness Percentage of students who have considered suicide or experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness Actions take as a result of the data analysis regarding school climate: We hired a team of mentor/life coaches for students with in-common behavioral, psycho-social challenges was implemented in the fall of 2019 to address challenges that could not be effectively addressed with limited intervention staff.  A social worker was hired full time to develop wrap services and address tier III student needs.   Intervention support hours were doubled school wide.  An acknowledgement system was developed and shared school wide to promote the virtues and values we want to grow in our school community.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
15635450000000|Kernville Union Elementary|6|The metric indicators consistently used by KUSD to monitor School Climate are:  Suspension rate:  • Kernville Elementary – 0.00% (Prior year 2.22%) • Wallace Elementary – 2.55% (Prior year 2.33%) • Wallace Middle – 13.44% (Prior year 4.78%) Truancy rate:  • Kernville Elementary –44.6% (Prior year 58.52%) • Wallace Elementary –55.10% (Prior year 48.26%) • Wallace Middle –41.64% (Prior year 45.86%) LCAP Surveys – quality education, look forward daily, feel safe, help make decisions:  • Students – 64% agree (Prior year 71%) • Parents – 70% agree (Prior year 74%) • Staff – 80% agree (Prior year 81%) California Healthy Kids Survey (2015-2016 data):  • Average Engagement & Supports –40.7% (Prior year 26.4%) • Average Feeling of Safety –32.3% (Prior year 31.4%) • Average Substance Abuse – 6.0% (Prior year 6.0%)  The KUSD Attendance Improvement Plan (AIP) is a tiered system developed to address truancy and chronic absenteeism with Student Attendance Support meetings with school staff and parents, as well as students when appropriate.  The Case Management model was proven successful in the Middle School last year and it has been employed at all schools this year.    The AIP encouraged and messaged regular attendance to students, parents, and staff.  Weekly recognition is given to classes with the highest attendance percentages. Mid trimester rewards were given to students with 100% attendance.  Trimester rewards were given to students with 98% attendance or higher.  Every parent received a flyer with information regarding the importance of regular attendance on the first day of school.  At the beginning of flu season parents were sent flyers, “When Is Sick Too Sick for School?”  Morning greeters were on hand every morning to Check and Connect with students for positive reinforcement of good attendance and on-time arrivals.  Students with attendance difficulties were contacted by letters, phone calls, in-school meetings and home visits.  Contacts with families were conducted through a Case Management approach that was solution-based.  Families received referrals as needed based upon their challenges with regular attendance.  Social Emotional Learning is evident in the AIP through implementation of The Leader in Me (TLIM) 7 Habits framework.  TLIM will provide the framework for a positive cultural shift inherent in the 7 Habits.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
50711346113286|Keyes to Learning Charter|6|Keyes to Learning Charter School (KTL) conducts climate surveys every other year with students in grades 4, 7 and 10.  Our last climate survey was conducted in 2018-19.  Being a non-classroom based independent study charter school, we recognize that our student needs are different than those of the Keyes Union School District.  KTL adapted our own climate surveys from those used by the US Department of Education.  The results identified in this report are but a small amount of the information gleaned.  The results for grade 4 indicated:  95% of the students feel safe at school, 96% have not been bullied, and 100% believe that KTL teachers care about them as a person and a student.  Results for grade 7 indicate:  81% of our students feel safe at school, 85% have not been bullied and 95% of our students believe that their teachers care about them as a person and student. Results for grade 10 indicated: 100% mostly feel safe at school, 82% have not been bullied, and 100% believe KTL teachers really care about them.  Though we were pleased with the results of the survey, we are concerned with those represented by the small percentage that do not feel safe, and have been bullied.  These surveys for grade 7-12 were given while students were attending rented facilities in an adjacent city.  Since then, KTL has built and occupied a new campus within the Keyes Union School District.  We anticipate these survey results to have a higher percentage of students feeling safer in our 2020-2021 climate survey at grades 4, 7 and 10.  Upon conversations with our students we discovered that the bullying incidents identified in our survey occurred to the students at schools they had previously attended, not necessarily at KTL.  We will need to alter our survey to discriminate bullying occurrences at our school versus previously attended schools.  This school year, all KTL teachers were each directed to set a goal in the realm of meeting the social and emotional needs of their students.  Implementation of these goals will positively impact the results of next year’s survey results.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
50711340000000|Keyes Union|6|The district based on the surveys administered to parents, students, staff and community stakeholders is engaging in the following to address the School Climate Priority: Pique Parent Classes, Healthy Start, Additional Counselor, Pre-School, Trauma Training, Bully prevention.  The implementation of the Parent Institute for Quality Education (PIQUE) program has created a partnership between parents, students, and educators to further students' academic achievement and parental involvement.  Throughout this nine-week workshop, PIQE’s signature program fulfills its goal of educating, empowering, and inspiring parents of K–12 school age children to take an active role in encouraging and enabling their children to: Stay in school; Improve their academic performance; Develop healthy and constructive relationships with their parents, teachers, and counselors; and, focus/prepare themselves for a post-secondary education.  Our State Pre-School and our Healthy Start Keyes program goal is to support and strengthen families by improving and integrating systems of care to enhance the well-being of children aged 0-5. Healthy Start families learn current health and wellness information and utilize the information to improve their family’s health.  Children 0-5 benefit from increased knowledge of community resources available to families.  Children 0-5 have caregivers who are better prepared to support their growth and development.  Keyes Union School District has also hired a second counselor to support the mental health needs of all students in Tk-12.  The counselors work on one on one counseling as well as group and career guidance. We are committed to educating the whole child. This allows our students for better opportunities to seek help and support.  The goal of this is to provide teachers, students and school staff with tools to identify, recognize, refer and support students with mental health needs in a respectful and culturally responsive manner.  Most importantly, they will learn to support these students by forming strong and positive student – staff relationships.  Our trauma training was implemented to raise awareness and build participants’ skills for developing effective crisis response or disaster preparedness plans that meet Federal and State requirements. Strategies for improving schools’ readiness for emergencies were shared and presented within the four phases of emergency management.  Additional training on dealing with student trauma also taught our staff the common risk factors and warning signs of specific types of illnesses, like anxiety, depression, substance use, bipolar disorder and Schizophrenia.  Anti-Bullying staff development will provides a thorough overview of bullying including working definitions and legal mandates, prevention and intervention strategies, and a variety of resources to help address the issue in our schools. It also focused on how to connect with and support students exposed to traumatic events or home life.|2019-10-08|The Keyes Union School District continues to be committed to providing the best possible learning and working environment possible for our students and staff.  The safety and well being of our students and staff are paramount.  Continued safety training and preventative maintenance is consistently implemented and conducted.|Met|2019
49402536116958|Kid Street Learning Center Charter|6|Since 2013,  Kid Street Charter has administered the Gallop Student Poll Engaged Today- Ready for Tomorrow.  Gallup Student Poll measures are linked to desirable learning outcomes in 5th through 12th grade, including self-reported grades, perception of school success and self-reported absenteeism. The 24 core items on the Gallup Student Poll measure and provide actionable data on four dimensions of student success: • engagement - the involvement in and enthusiasm for school • hope - the ideas and energy students have for the future • entrepreneurial aspiration - the talent and energy necessary to build businesses that survive, thrive and employ others • financial/career literacy - the information, attitudes and behaviors that students need for healthy participation in the economy Annually, from 2013-2015, 5th graders were surveyed.  In 2016 and 2017, all students in grades 5th-8th grades were surveyed.     In 2018-2019, we surveyed our 3-6 graders with the Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports School Climate survey; which is a survey to provide schools with an overall understanding of how elementary students perceive school climate along four dimensions: school connectedness, school safety, school orderliness, and peer and adult relations.    The two areas that we focus on in our LCAP development are Hopefulness and Engagement.   Below is table the shares our results Year Percentage of students who are Hopeful about the future Percentage of students who are Engaged and feel safe in school 2013 10% 60% 2014 50% 40% 2015 48% 50% 2016 36% 69% 2017 25% 35% 2018 45%  55%|2019-09-12|Our LCAP goals for improved social emotional learning improvements are directly linked to the improved survey results stated above.  This will remain a focus for our future LCAP development meetings.|Met|2019
37679910139394|Kidinnu Academy|6|Kidinnu Academy is a brand new school that just opened its doors this Fall.  We plan to administer a local survey to determine school climate measures.  This year, we have daily class meetings in each class to build a positive school climate.  Our initial steps in determining the type of climate that we have on campus was to discuss it with students during these class meetings.  Students report feeling safe on campus.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
30665300134221|Kinetic Academy|6|Kinetic Academy administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 4 and 5.  A total of 57 students responded to the Core Module. 81% of students in grade 4 responded and 61% of students in grade 5 responded; therefore, the majority of the students responded so the data should be reflective of the sample.    SURVEY FINDINGS: In the area of school connectedness: • 79% of 4th graders and 91% of 5th graders stated they are happy to be at Kinetic Academy most/all of the time.  • 88% of 4th graders and 92% of 5th graders stated they feel safe at the school most/all of the time.  • 83% of 4th graders and 5th graders stated they feel they are part of the school most/all of the time.   In the area of positive staff-student relationships: • 74% of 4th graders and 79% of 5th graders stated that teachers and other adults at the school make an effort to get to know students, most/all of the time.   In the area of Supports for Learning: • 67% of 4th graders and 74% of 5th graders stated that teachers and other adults at the school give students a chance to solve school problems.   In the area of social and emotional learning: • 86% of 4th graders and 100% of 5th graders agreed that “the school teaches students to care about each other and treat each other with respect,” most/all of the time.  • 85% of 4th graders and 87% of 5th graders agreed that “the school teaches students to feel responsible for how they act,” most/all of the time.   In the area of Clarify of Rules and Fairness: • 97% of 4th graders and 87% of 5th graders agreed that students know what the rules are most/all of the time.   In the area of school responses to bullying: • 89% of 4th graders and 100% of 5th graders agreed that “teachers and other adults make it clear that bullying is not allowed,” most/all of the time.  • 82% of 4th graders and 91% of 5th graders agreed that “if you tell a teacher you’ve been bullied, the teacher will do something to help,” most/all of the time.  • 66% of 4th graders and 69% of 5th graders agreed that “students at the school try to stop bullying when they see it happening,” most/all of the time.   Kinetic Academy made it a priority to increase the student participation rate for the Spring 2019 administration in alignment with the Charter School's LCAP, and it met that goal.  The Charter School is pleased that the majority of the students responded "Yes, most of the time" or "Yes, all of the time."  The Charter School will continue to work with students, staff and family to ensure that all students respond affirmatively especially in regard to their relationships with each other.  Kinetic Academy will investigate and implement a Social Emotional Learning Program in order to increase the results for continuous improvement to the key survey areas.|2019-06-19||Met|2019
27660500000000|King City Union|6|A school climate survey is administered annually to all students in grades 3 through 8.  Results of the student surveys indicated that that the majority of students feel safe on campus and treated fairly by teachers and administration.   The trend in responses continues to show that elementary students reported feelings of safety 'all of the time' at a higher rate, while middle school selected the option of 'often' at a higher rate. Students respecting students continues to be an area of focus as results indicate  an on-going need for improvement in this area.  The responses between males and females shows little variance across grade levels.  The student survey results are one indicator of progress on goal 4 of the district LCAP and assist with refining the focus on school climate.|2019-05-15|All KCUSD schools are implementing Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) to continue to address the social and emotional needs of all students. As part of the system, each school site has a PBIS team that attends on-going training and provides direction to their individual school site for further implementation. Each school site is monitoring the effectiveness of implementation through the use of both the Tiered Fidelity Inventory (TFI) survey tool and SWIS (School-wide Information System) which each provide valuable data to assist in further planning, collaboration, and goal setting.  For the 2018-19 school year, one school was recognized at the gold level and three schools at the silver level for implementation of PBIS.|Met|2019
37683386119598|King-Chavez Academy of Excellence|6|School connectedness is related to our school’s mission of Love.  Data from the California Healthy Kids Survey shows that overall our programs promoting school safety and connectedness are working.  Between 60% and 70% of students in grades 4-6 indicate they feel safe at school.  This number increases to over 75% in the middle school grades.  These figures are in line with both parent (100%) and staff (96-98%) perceptions of safety.  Between 44% and 68% of students reported high levels of school connectedness; the level of connectedness tended to decrease in the middle school.    We will continue to implement, expand, and/or refine our programming.  Highlights include: 1) Student-centered academic strategies (e.g. structured classroom discourse); 2) a restorative approach to discipline; 3) community events focused on safety; and 4) regular school celebrations to promote connectedness.  We also plan to solicit feedback from students over the course of the school year in order to monitor the effectiveness of our programs.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37683380109033|King-Chavez Arts Academy|6|School connectedness is related to our school’s mission of Love.  Data from the California Healthy Kids Survey shows that overall our programs promoting school safety and connectedness are working.   83% of students indicate they feel safe at school.  This number is in line with both parent (97%) and staff (96%) perceptions of safety.  57% of students reported high levels of school connectedness.    We will continue to implement, expand, and/or refine our programming.  Highlights include: 1) Student-centered academic strategies (e.g. structured classroom discourse); 2) a restorative approach to discipline; 3) community events focused on safety; and 4) regular school celebrations to promote connectedness.  We also plan to solicit feedback from students over the course of the school year in order to monitor the effectiveness of our programs.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37683380109041|King-Chavez Athletics Academy|6|School connectedness is related to our school’s mission of Love.  Data from the California Healthy Kids Survey shows that overall our programs promoting school safety and connectedness are working.   85% of students indicate they feel safe at school.  This number is in line with both parent (98%) and staff (100%) perceptions of safety.  63% of students reported high levels of school connectedness.    We will continue to implement, expand, and/or refine our programming.  Highlights include: 1) Student-centered academic strategies (e.g. structured classroom discourse); 2) a restorative approach to discipline; 3) community events focused on safety; and 4) regular school celebrations to promote connectedness.  We also plan to solicit feedback from students over the course of the school year in order to monitor the effectiveness of our programs.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37683380118851|King-Chavez Community High|6|School connectedness is related to our school’s mission of Love.  Data from the California Healthy Kids Survey shows that overall our programs promoting school safety and connectedness are effective. An average of around 43% of students indicate they feel safe at school, with a similar number reporting high levels of school connectedness.  This number is significantly lower than both parent (90%) and staff (100%) perceptions of safety.  Local incident data on campus shows instances of unsafe behavior, such as fights, are extremely rare.   Our gap analysis concluded that students’ perspective of school safety includes their commute to and from our downtown campus.  KCCHS has designated supervisory posts outside of the trolley in the morning and afternoon to ensure student safety.     We will continue to implement, expand, and/or refine our programming to foster connectedness and feelings of safety. Highlights include: 1) Student-centered academic strategies (e.g. including culturally relevant material in all course units ); 2) a proactive approach to discipline; 3) Trauma Informed Care; and 4) regular school celebrations to promote connectedness.  We also plan to solicit feedback from students over the course of the school year in order to monitor the effectiveness of our programs.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37683380111906|King-Chavez Preparatory Academy|6|School connectedness is related to our school’s mission of Love.  Data from the California Healthy Kids Survey shows that overall our programs promoting school safety and connectedness are working.   An average of over 70% of students indicate they feel safe at school.  This number is in line with both parent (100%) and staff (86%) perceptions of safety.  Between 63% and 78% of students reported high levels of school connectedness.    We will continue to implement, expand, and/or refine our programming.  Highlights include: 1) Student-centered academic strategies (e.g. AVID); 2) a restorative approach to discipline; 3) community events focused on safety; and 4) regular school celebrations to promote connectedness.  We also plan to solicit feedback from students over the course of the school year in order to monitor the effectiveness of our programs.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37683386040190|King-Chavez Primary Academy|6|KC Primary administered a local climate survey to students from grades K-2.   This survey included items adapted from the California Healthy Kids Survey developed by Wested for the California Department of Education.  We chose to use a modified version of the instrument because of the age of our student body.     The school is seen as safe and inclusive.  82% of indicate of students indicate they feel safe/taken care of at school.  This number is in line with both parent (95%) and staff (84%) perceptions of safety.  School connectedness is related to our school’s mission of Love.  80% of students reported high levels of school connectedness (highest rating on “I feel that I am part of my school family”).    The data shows that overall our programs promoting school safety and connectedness are working.  We will continue to implement, expand, and/or refine our programming.  Highlights include: 1) Student-centered academic strategies (e.g. structured classroom discourse); 2) Elective course offerings; 3) a restorative approach to discipline; 4) community events focused on safety; and 5) regular school celebrations to promote connectedness.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
10622650000000|Kings Canyon Joint Unified|6|The local climate survey is administered to all students in grades 3-12 in KCUSD.  This survey provides data on overall school climate and culture as it pertains to student safety, expectations for both behavior and academic achievement as well as expectations beyond graduation.  Through an analysis of the survey results, it is evident that KCUSD has been successful in rolling out Positive Behavior and Intervention Supports (PBIS) through the consistency in results between grades 3-8 and 9-12.  For example, students from both grade ranges report that “There are clear expectations for behavior at my school” (93.3% for grades 3-8, and 91.4% for grades 9-12).  Additionally, students are very clear on “There are clear consequences for breaking the rules at my school” (91.3% for grades 3-8 and 89% for grades 9-12).  In the areas of student perception of the quality of education, over 90% of both 3-8 students (94.6%) and 9-12 students (91.9%) responded that they agree or strongly agree that “My school provides a good education for students.”  Additionally, in the area of expectations for student attendance, both groups of students reported that expectations are very clear (95.8% for 3-8 and 93.6% for 9-12 rating that they agree or strongly agree that “My principal, teachers think it’s important that I attend school every day.”).    Student perception of safety and connectedness is also consistent, but does show there is room for growth.  Students responded positively to the question “I feel welcome at my school” (85% for grades 3-8 and 81.4% for grades 9-12).  For the question of “I am safe in the hallways, bathrooms, and on the yard at my school” students in grades 3-8, 84.8% rated that they “agree or strongly agree” and for grades 9-12, the percentage was 76.2%.  In 2018-2019, a new question was asked of student to assess for students believing that their school “is the right place for me.” In grades 3-8, 85.3% of students responded that they “agree or strongly agree” in the affirmative on that question.  In grades 9-12, 74.3% responded in the affirmative.  These data points are extremely informative and they will continue to be reviewed through cycles of continuous improvement to cultivate a more positive climate and culture at school sites.   Overall, Students reported a strong sense of feeling safe on campus, and general connectedness with school and at least one adult on campus.  As in the past, many students commented on the need for additional supports for students that disrupt the learning environment.  Utilizing student and systematic input from stakeholders, KCUSD will continue to review systems to grow and support the most positive climate possible.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
16101650000000|Kings County Office of Education|6|Findings: We have administered a local climate survey to students enrolled at our court school for the last several years, and have found that student responses are a valuable part of the impact on our LCAP. The fall 2019 survey responses showed that 61% of students felt very or somewhat safe at school, which was a 19% decrease from the fall 2018 survey. 45% of students indicated they felt strongly or somewhat connected to school, which was a 12% decrease from last year.    The analysis of survey results identify both strengths and areas of need. The 19% decrease from the fall 2018 survey regarding school safety was based on the number of gang fights that occurred in the facility overall, but these fights did routinely occur during the school day.  Students may not be differentiating between the school day and the facility as a whole. The 12% decrease from last year in regards to feeling connected to the school may be based on the number of new students to the facility at this point of the year and the time required to grow healthy relationships. This year as a strength we were able to see 90% of students felt there were high expectations in place for them. Another strength was 76% of students felt that their classes were very or somewhat academically challenging.   Court schools serve populations of students that come into and out of programs more regularly than in other educational settings.  We plan to continue to promote positive safety through the use of student incentives. We continue to have a Principal that is onsite daily, and meets more frequently with probation staff. We continue to focus our efforts to increase collaboration, connectedness, and transparency between staff. We are continuing to work on preparing for a follow-up visit regarding our six-year WASC accreditation.  We continue to work to establish a more regular schedule for professional learning communities, professional learning, and instructional preparation. We have implemented quarterly transcripts to assist in more timely feedback. Students are able to see their credits accumulate, which allows for them to see their graduation progress at more frequent intervals. Our program continues to work towards providing a safe, secure, and engaging learning environment for students that is sensitive to the needs of our populations.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
54719690000000|Kings River Union Elementary|6|Kings River Union Elementary School District (KRUESD) has selected to administer the California Healthy Kids survey annually to the fifth and seventh grade students to measure their perception of school safety, connectedness, and other essential elements that are indicators of the overall school climate. This annual survey data will be utilized as a measure within our Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP), specifically for Goal 6; KRUESD will improve the school climate for ALL students through increased services, activities, and community building that will support positive school attendance rates and decrease student discipline rates. Results of the California Healthy Kids Survey were presented to key stakeholders; the KRUESD Board of Education, staff, and parent advisory groups. The student participation rate in the survey was 94% for the 7th grade students and 84% for the 5th grade students. The overall results indicated that 89% of fifth graders ( Increase of 1 point)  and 93% (increase of 35 points) of seventh graders feel a strong sense of school connectedness. In addition, 82% (Decrease of 5 points) of fifth graders and 77% (increase of 9 points) of seventh graders had a positive school safety perception; responding that the school is very safe. The KRUESD MTSS and PBIS leadership teams have examined this data closely and re-examined the sub-actions within Goal 6 to ensure that there are adequate supports to improve feelings of safety and connectedness for the 7th grade students.  It is our assertion that these results reveal that as students move into the middle school grades they experience more disconnect and negative peer to peer interactions (bullying, cyberbullying, and intimidation) causing them to feel unsafe.  Through specific sub-actions within Goals 5 and 6 from the 2017-2018 school year to the 2018-2019 school year; implementation of a PBIS program, additional onsite time for the school psychologist, access to a school social worker, increased access to after school and extracurricular activities we have seen school connected increase dramatically in 7th graders (35%).  In addition, the commitment to gather this information collected annually and consistently over time will be essential in continuing to determine and provide the appropriate services and supports for students to improve the overall school climate at Kings River Union Elementary School.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
16639416010474|Kings River-Hardwick Elementary|6|Through the Kings River-Hardwick LCAP Survey, information gathered showed that 83% of students felt a strong sense of safety and school connectedness.  The School Resource Officer was also found to be a position that both students and parents feel strongly contributes to the feeling of a safe school campus.  As a result of this data, the School Resource Officer will continue to be maintained as a full-time position.  All students, parents, and staff will be surveyed during the 2019-2020 school year for reporting in the fall of 2020.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
16639410000000|Kings River-Hardwick Union Elementary|6|Through the Kings River-Hardwick LCAP Survey, information gathered showed that 83% of students felt a strong sense of safety and school connectedness.  The School Resource Officer was also found to be a position that both students and parents feel strongly contributes to the feeling of a safe school campus.  As a result of this data, the School Resource Officer will continue to be maintained as a full-time position.  All students, parents, and staff will be surveyed during the 2019-2020 school year for reporting in the fall of 2020.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
16639580136556|Kings Valley Academy II|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  97% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  97% reported that they felt connected to the school *  96% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
10622400000000|Kingsburg Elementary Charter|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
10622570000000|Kingsburg Joint Union High|6|KJUHSD conducted a survey in the spring to all students in the district which garnered a total of 763 responses. Students were asked a variety of questions to gather information about views on school climate, including safety, academic rigor, opportunities for extracurricular participation, teaching strategies, student connectedness and technology. In the area of school safety, 82.8% of the students feel safe on campus. In comparing grade levels, tenth graders feel the least safe at 75%, but that was 6% higher than what they stated as 9th graders. A total of 84.1% of the students feel the school works hard to provide a safe environment for all students. In comparing grade levels, the tenth graders rated the district the lowest at 75%, where the other classes rated the school between 84 and 87%. A total of 47.7% of students feel the classrooms, bathrooms, and office spaces are clean and orderly compared to 85% of students who feel the grounds, parking lots, and athletic fields are clean and orderly. In comparing grade levels, the percentage of students who feel the classrooms were clean decreased at every grade level with 46% of juniors and seniors feeling the classrooms were clean.   Over 80 percent of all grade levels rated the school grounds as clean and orderly, with the junior class having the lowest rating at 81%. Student connectedness showed that 87.2% of students feel they can approach teachers, counselors and administrators regarding academic support. In comparing grade levels, the junior class rates the district the lowest at 83%, but that was a 2% increase compared to last year. A total of 62.5% of the students feel comfortable reaching out to members to discuss suggestions and/or complaints, a 6% decline, while 56% of ninth graders feel comfortable to make a complaint to staff. Overall, 88.6% of students feel the school cares about them and works hard to provide a quality education, an increase of 1%. In comparing grade levels, 9th and 12th graders (91% and 93%) had the highest percentage while fewer 11th and 12th graders (88% and 86%) feel the school cares for them.   Overall student results showed that actions to improve safety and school connectedness has improved as results show an increase in both areas.  The district is committed to continue to support safety and school connectedness by including more after school tutoring opportunities, after school transportation and an on-campus safety monitor.  To support student emotional needs, the district has brought on additional behavioral health support personnel three days a week.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19647330128512|KIPP Academy of Innovation|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 70.1% Hispanic/Latinx students - 67.6%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 55.3% Hispanic/Latinx students - 55.9%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330101444|KIPP Academy of Opportunity|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 53.6% Hispanic/Latinx students - 54.2% Black/African American students - 51.6%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 46.1% Hispanic/Latinx students - 53.2% Black/African American students - 47.9%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37683380101345|KIPP Adelante Preparatory Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school. In July 2019, KIPP San Diego and KIPP LA merged to form KIPP SoCal. KIPP Adelante students will participate in KIPP SoCal's survey for the first time in fall 2019.  Specific results from Adelante's spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel extremely or quite safe at school: 60.6%  % of students reporting the energy of the school is very or somewhat positive: 56.3%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
38684780101337|KIPP Bayview Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 79% of students and 91% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
38771310137307|KIPP Bayview Elementary|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 67% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
01612590115014|KIPP Bridge Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 65% of students and 84% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330121707|KIPP Comienza Community Prep|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 82.8% Hispanic/Latinx students - 88.2%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 78.4% Hispanic/Latinx students - 88.1%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19734370137893|KIPP Compton Community|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school. KIPP Compton Community School only had students in grades TK and K in the 2018-19 school year and has not yet taken the student survey.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330135517|KIPP Corazon Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 92.9% Hispanic/Latinx students - 95.2%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 91.7% Hispanic/Latinx students - 92.1%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330121699|KIPP Empower Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 54.8% Hispanic/Latinx students - 55.3% Black/African American students - 52.2%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 59.6% Hispanic/Latinx students - 68.4% Black/African American students - 53.2%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
41690050132068|KIPP Excelencia Community Preparatory|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 83% of students and 96% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
43693690106633|KIPP Heartwood Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 88% of students and 100% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
43694500129205|KIPP Heritage Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 86% of students and 96% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330131771|KIPP Ignite Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 66.7% Hispanic/Latinx students - 76.9% Black/African American students - 58.3%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 69.4% Hispanic/Latinx students - 76.9% Black/African American students - 66.7%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330127670|KIPP Iluminar Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 84.4% Hispanic/Latinx students - 88.1%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 75.4% Hispanic/Latinx students - 83.3%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
01613090114421|KIPP King Collegiate High|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 81% of students and 97% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330100867|KIPP Los Angeles College Preparatory|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 86.4% Hispanic/Latinx students -  86.5%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 65.3% Hispanic/Latinx students - 64.4%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
43771490137315|KIPP Navigate College Prep|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 85% of students and 100% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330125609|KIPP Philosophers Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 41.4% Hispanic/Latinx students - 35.7% Black/African American students - 41.7%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 34.5% Hispanic/Latinx students - 28.6% Black/African American students - 41.7%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
43693690129924|Kipp Prize Preparatory Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 82% of students and 96% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330131797|KIPP Promesa Prep|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 86.1% Hispanic/Latinx students - 90.5%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 78.8% Hispanic/Latinx students - 90.5%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330117903|KIPP Raices Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 82.4% Hispanic/Latinx students - 84.7%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 75% Hispanic/Latinx students - 78.8%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
38684780101352|KIPP San Francisco Bay Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 86% of students and 95% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
38684780127530|KIPP San Francisco College Preparatory|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 84% of students and 93% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
43694270116889|KIPP San Jose Collegiate|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 90% of students and 93% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330125625|KIPP Scholar Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 58.6% Hispanic/Latinx students - 63% Black/African American students - 58.8%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 47.3% Hispanic/Latinx students - 50.9% Black/African American students - 44.1%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
19647330125641|KIPP Sol Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 84.2% Hispanic/Latinx students - 85.6%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 67% Hispanic/Latinx students - 66.5%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
01613090101212|KIPP Summit Academy|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 80% of students and 96% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
41689990135608|KIPP Valiant Community Prep|6|At KIPP, we believe in an open-door policy for our parents and families because a partnership between all parties will improve student learning. Each year, the parents, students and teachers are surveyed to gather important feedback on the climate of the school, including overall safety and connectedness. This survey is administered each year and families are encouraged to participate over a 4 week period. 81% of students and 100% of staff responded positively when asked about "students feeling/being safe at school" on an annual survey. Results from our community have contributed to continuing and prioritizing an improved school climate and culture.   KIPP combined California’s rigorous content standards with the pedagogical methodologies that have proven successful in these crucial areas, including: character education, extra-curricular activities, technology, and community service. Teachers take into consideration the interests and cultural backgrounds of students in an effort to make all instruction relevant and purposeful. It is equally important that all scholars are offered support in social and emotional development. As young adults grow from year-to-year, they experience new challenges, new emotions, and new situations. Students need more than academic and intellectual skills alone to thrive in college, career and life. When a school is a positive place to be, students and teachers are happy to be there, do their best, and make their best better.   Research has shown that positive school culture is the basis for sustainable learning and preparation for the tasks and tests of life and that a positive school culture and climate has a direct impact on students’ academic success, graduation rates, and overall well-being and connection to their school community. KIPP has built a strong and supportive school environment through both SEL and Restorative Practices. Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) is developing social and emotional competence in order to understand, manage, and express the social-emotional aspects of one’s life in ways that enable the successful management of life tasks such as learning, forming relationships, solving everyday problems, and adapting to the complex demands of growth and development. Restorative Practices is a component of our approach to SEL and refers to a behavior management philosophy that seeks to redress the harms created by conflicts by repairing the relationships of those most directly involved. Second Step Curriculum supports our SEL work in the classroom, and The Complete Restorative Practices Implementation Guidebook has been developed by KIPP’s school culture team to guide school leadership. Like our academic approach, we infused the bulk of our social-emotional support into the general education curriculum through community circles and teaching young adults how to respond to situations that arose in class.|2019-06-05||Met|2019
19647330129460|KIPP Vida Preparatory Academy|6|Each fall and spring, KIPP SoCal administers a survey to students in grades 3-8 in order to gather KIPPsters' feedback on how they are experiencing school academically, socially, and emotionally. We use this feedback to improve supports and increase the health of our school.   Specific results from the spring 2019 survey on school safety and connectedness are included below:  % of students reporting I feel safe at school: all students - 72.9% Hispanic/Latinx students - 76.4% Black/African American students - 70.3%  % of students reporting I am happy to be at this school: all students - 78.5% Hispanic/Latinx students - 84.2% Black/African American students - 75%|2019-06-20||Met|2019
52715550000000|Kirkwood Elementary|6|Kirkwood gathers yearly data in the spring using a 24 question parent survey which allows open ended comments from our parent community. Overall the results were very positive with parents strongly agreeing that staff are friendly to parents when the call, teachers and parents get along and communicate well.  Parking continues to be a concern not only with parents but with the board of trustees.  We are working the the county to make improvements.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
16639580000000|Kit Carson Union Elementary|6|The following data was compiled from the California Healthy Kids Surveys (October 2019): 53% of students report that they are motivated to learn 82% of students report that adults at this school encourage students to work hard so that they can be successful in college or at the job they choose. 82% of students report that their teachers work hard to help them with their schoolwork when they need help. 85% of students report that teachers give students a chance to take part in classroom discussions or activities. 67% of students report that the school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn. 56% of students report that adults at this school treat all students with respect. 40% of students report that school rules are fair. 52% of students report that rules in this school are made clear to students. 46% of students report that students care about each other. 28% of students report that students treat each other with respect. 85% of students report that teachers here make it clear to students that bullying is not tolerated. 60% of students report that if another student was bullying them, they would tell one of the teachers or staff at school. 39% of students report that students here try to stop bullying when they see it happening. 57% of students report that the playground and buildings are clean and in good condition.  Strengths include: adults at this school encourage students to work hard so that they can be successful in college or at the job they choose, teachers work hard to help them with their schoolwork when they need help, and teachers give students a chance to take part in classroom discussions or activities. Challenges include: students do not try to stop bullying when they see it happening and students do not treat each other with respect.   The district has implemented “Tigers ROAR” which are student expectations.  Expectations include respect yourself and others, always give our personal best, always treat others the way you want to be treated, and remember self control.  The district has implemented “Tiger Paws” to hand out to students when students are found to be helping others.  The district has also partnered with the Kings County Office of Education to provide social skills lessons in each classroom throughout the school year.  The district has implemented “buddy benches” on each playground so that students needing a friend can sit on the buddy bench.  The above actions started in August 2019.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
47703750000000|Klamath River Union Elementary|6|Returned Surveys: Parent - 70%; Student - 90% and Staff 90%. Parents: 86% approve communication practices; 91% approve school climate; 90% like Student engagement practices.  Students and Staff had 97% approval of student climate|2019-10-08||Met|2019
12629010000000|Klamath-Trinity Joint Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
12629190000000|Kneeland Elementary|6|In the Spring of 2018, 100% of families participated in the school climate survey.  100% of the participants agree that Kneeland School provides access for all learners to the CA state common core standards, 99% of the families agree that Kneeland School prepares its students for the next grade level, 99% agree that parent concerns are promptly and thoroughly addressed, 99% agree that Kneeland School encourages school attendance, 55% agree that there is adequate home to school and school to home transportation for students, 99% agree that the school is in good repair. Kneeland School is implementing morning and afternoon bus service by hiring a new bus driver and putting the Kneeland School bus back into service beginning in the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
50711420000000|Knights Ferry Elementary|6|The LEA gave the California Healthy Kids Survey in December of 2018. The results showed that 78% of the students surveyed felt connected at school and 85% felt that the school held high expectations of the students. The large majority of our small group felt safe at school and had positive experiences.   The sample size was too small for disaggregated groups of ethnicity, socio-economic status, English learner or disability status.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
07617050000000|Knightsen Elementary|6|Results over time show that students are feeling safer at school. Although bullying is still an issue, there has been a meaningful increase in response by the district to address it. Likewise, students becoming more aware of their role and how to affect positive change.  Parent participation  and caring relationship scales have remained level.  Positive student behavior and supports for social and emotional learning scores have risen.    With a change in the Superintendent and Principal at KES and the district a different model of discipline has taken hold. We are focusing on restorative practices and counseling prior to punitive consequences. We also want to work in partnership with parents and families. Their support is a critical component in working with their children.  One of the biggest challenges is moving away from the old way of conducting business with regards to student discipline. It is easy to go back to the prior way of thinking when things become difficult.    We will have an ongoing focus on bullying and continually revisit the expectations of our students. We currently have a TK -5 Character Education program and a 6-8 Advisory program what focuses on topics we see and feel within our school. Many topics come to us organically, and there are cyclical topics of importance such as student led conferences, grades, learning styles and dress code reviews. Likewise, we will be using the California Healthy Kids Survey results to guide our thoughts and practice. Once we create and apply the lessons we follow up with staff discussions to gather information as to it's effect. We have also polled the students to get their perspectives. We look to compare results of the CHKS from one year to the next.|2019-09-11||Met|2019
19647336017743|Knollwood Preparatory Academy|6|Knollwood Preparatory Academy administered the 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey during the spring semester to 3rd – 5th graders. The participation rate for this survey was 83%. The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the % of students indicating All of the Time and Most of the Time are noted next to the question. · Are you happy to be at this school? 85% · Do you feel like you are part of this school? 81% · Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 81% · Do you feel safe at this school? 81% · Does this school make an effort to create a safe, respectful and caring environment? 85%.  At Knollwood Preparatory Academy, our mission is to provide a safe, supportive, and enriching learning environment for all students with high, rigorous academic and social standards. Our goal is to provide our students with essential tools necessary in the ever-changing, technologically driven 21st century to instill a lifelong love of learning in concert with respect and a cooperative spirit. After analyzing the data, our staff decided that fully implementing Second Step, school wide, will help us reach our goal of 100% percent of the students feeling safe at our school.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
01611920127696|Knowledge Enlightens You (KEY) Academy|6|KEY Academy sends a yearly survey to parents, students, and staff. One of the sections on the survey relates to the safety at the school. Last year, 93% of our staff felt that the school environment was safe. 93% of students reported that they felt safe at school on the survey. 89% of parents responded that the school was a safe environment. Staff has adopted the behavioral pedagogy of Love and Logic program into the daily program. Since the implementation of the program, discipline incidents have decreased, and a positive school climate and culture has increased. KEY Academy has two school counselors that support our character program and are able to intervene when students are struggling academically or socially. We will continue to monitor the survey results to ascertain the effectiveness of the programs implemented.|2019-10-24|KEY Academy takes pride in offering an environment that is warm and welcoming. The majority of our parents have stated that our staff is easy to talk to and is informative. Most importantly, parents feel comfortable talking to the staff about their needs. More parents are involved in our PTO (Parent/Teacher Organization) than in the past few years. We have scheduled more Parent Universities throughout the school year. Parent University topics are based on parent needs and inputs. We have made strides to make our environment safer. This year, we have added Go Guardian to our Chromebooks to monitor student internet activity.|Met|2019
17640220000000|Konocti Unified|6|Konocti Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey annually to 5,7,9 and 11 graders.   The following data was collected regarding School Connectedness for 5th graders "I feel close to people at this school." - Most or all of the time =41% "I am happy to be at this school." - Most or all of the time = 84% "I feel like I am part of this school." - Most or all of the time = 69% "The teachers at this school treat students fairly." - Most or all of the time = 70% "I feel safe in my school." - Most or all of the time = 75% Elementary Average Reporting of Most or all of the time = 68%  The following data was collected regarding School Connectedness for 7th, 9th and 11th graders reporting strongly agree or agree: "I feel close to people at this school." 7th = 62%, 9th = 55%, 11th = 45% "I am happy to be at this school." 7th = 57%, 9th = 51%, 11th = 31% "I feel like I am part of this school." 7th =  53%, 9th = 43%, 11th = 35% "The Teachers at this school treat students fairly." 7th = 56%, 9th = 60%, 11th = 48% "I feel safe in my school." 7th = 56%, 9th = 57%, 11th = 42% Average reporting Agree or Strongly Agree: 7th = 57%, 9th = 53%, 11th = 41%  Survey data is shared out with each site administrator for review and reflection.  The District understands the directly correlation between student achievement and student connectedness.  Konocti continues to research and implement best practices for student engagement, social well being and promoting a positive school climate.  In addition to Counselors, incentive programs and enrichment offerings, the district has added supervised recess as a supplement service at the elementary grades and is offering emotional intelligence professional development to staff to bring awareness and resources to staff in supporting student well being at school.|2019-10-16|For a detailed report out of Local Indicator (Priority 6) - School Climate for Konocti Unified School District, visit http://konoctiusd.org/lcap|Met|2019
19646590000000|La Canada Unified|6|The Panorama Education Survey has been given annually to stakeholder groups, including students in grade 4-12, since 2011. Student voice is valued in LCUSD as students are asked questions in two domains: perceptions related to classroom experience and those related to the school as a whole. In the domain related to student perceptions of their classroom experiences, students provide feedback about levels of engagement, their relationship with their teacher(s), the degree of rigorous expectations, classroom climate, and pedagogical effectiveness. Students in grades 4-6 reported similar or increased percentages of satisfaction in all five question domains related to their classroom experience. At the 7-12, students reported a 1% - 7% improvement in the area of teacher-student relationships. Areas of strength that are revealed by our annual Panorama Education surveys also show strong student participation rates and growing numbers of students reporting the perception that teachers believe in their abilities.   For four consecutive years, 77% of students in grades 4-6 reported positive feelings about the social and learning climate of the school and a sense of personal safety on campus. When asked specifically about feelings of safety at school, 90% of 4-6 grade students responded positively.  Seventy-two percent of students in grades 7 and 8 and 59% of 9-12 graders report positive feelings about the social and learning climate of the school and a sense of personal safety on campus.  Eighty percent of students in grades 4-6 report that class is a happy place to be, a 12% increase from the previous year.  Seventy-nine percent of students in grades 7-12 believe teachers respect and support their ideas. LCUSD 7/8 students saw a 5% increase in student perception of fair treatment related to race, culture, religion, sexual orientation, gender, or disability, with numbers increasing from 73% to 78% across the two year period while 9-12 grade students saw a slight decline of 1% with a total of 72%.    This survey data resulted in the creation of a Safety and Security Task Force that examined student wellness, communication, outreach, and a variety of safety related issues. Subsequently, a Student Wellness Center was created and opened in the fall of 2019. Through generous community bond funds, perimeter fencing was installed at all three elementary school sites during the summer of 2019 with future plans to install perimeter fencing at the 7-12. A Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion consultant was hired to support district staff in creating an inclusive learning environment where all students feel welcomed and experience a sense of belonging and empathy.   These Panorama Education survey results affirm our continued effort on balancing academic rigor and high achievement with an emphasis on student wellness. The survey results show strong indicators of effective classroom and school climate.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
30665630000000|La Habra City Elementary|6|Data from the annual end-of-year Parent Survey shows that overall LHCSD has a positive school climate.  Parents agree or strongly agree that they feel welcome (95%), are comfortable talking with their child's teacher (96%), feel all is being done to ensure school safety (91%), are excited about new opportunities and school foci (91%), believe that their school promotes positive choices and healthy behavior (94%), and believe that the school promotes physical fitness and healthy eating (94%).    Based on the 2017-2018 CHKS and qualitative data from schools, the District focused on refining tier 1 supports at all schools.  These supports included monthly themes such as suicide awareness, kindness week, bullying prevention week, mental health awareness, Red Ribbon week, etc.  These themes were incorporated into classrooms with supports from the counseling department.  In addition to classroom instruction, the counseling department also focused on providing parent training to reinforce the lessons/themes the students were engaging in throughout the school year.    Additional tier 1 supports including teacher training on topics such as trauma informed care and restorative practices.  Several school sites focused on classroom circles as well as restorative circles to build community within their classrooms and school sites.  The District’s MTSS Behavior and Social Emotional Learning Committee will meet regularly during the 2019-2020 school year to focus on best practices to improve school climate within the LHCSD.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
41689400000000|La Honda-Pescadero Unified|6|LHPUSD administers the California Healthy Kids (CHKS) survey every two years in grade 5,7,9, and 11. The results from Spring 2018 have been analyzed for key learnings. The 2016 results showed a gap between teacher and student perception of high expectations and consistent messaging regarding equity and respect. Using this data, the district formed a Climate Assembly where the results were studied and further data gathered through focus groups to provide context to the data. The Climate Assembly meets monthly to provide a space where teachers, staff and administration can come together to discuss the issues of bias, equity and respect. One outcome of the collection and review of data over the 2017-2018 was a revision to the middle school discipline practice. Focus group data showed that the discipline practices were being applied unfairly and without consistency. The school replaced the "blue slip" system which assigns detentions to students who accumulate blue slips with a "reminder" system which assigns a student a team conference with teacher, student and principal if a student accumulates too many "reminders" in a week.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37681970000000|La Mesa-Spring Valley|6|La Mesa-Spring Valley Schools are committed to ensuring positive school climates for students, parents, and staff.   We use two different assessments to measure school safety and connectedness, - 1) a district-developed survey completed by parents, and 2) the California Healthy Kids Survey.   The District’s Parent Survey was administered in the 2018-2019 school year to all district families TK through 8. The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the Spring of 2019 and includes responses from students in grades 5 and 7.  The key findings from the Parent Survey indicate high levels of connectedness and a sense of safety for their children at school with 96% of parents reporting that their children felt safe at school. 97% of the parents felt welcomed by the school and felt that they are treated with respect. 90% percent of families felt that schools are actively engaged in reducing bullying.   One measure used to gauge the effectiveness of our efforts in creating a positive school climate with students is the California Healthy Kids Survey. Results from the 2018-19 survey indicate that the majority of students’ perception show a sense of safety and connectedness. Specifics show that 60% of students felt a sense of connectedness with their school, 62% of all students experienced connections with caring adults at school, and 60% of students shared they felt safe or very safe at school. There is a slight variance between gender with males reporting higher levels of safety and school connectedness while there is no significant difference between reporting from ethnicities. Additionally, middle school students tended to score somewhat lower levels overall as compared to elementary students.   In response to these results, the district is actively training staff on Trauma Informed Practices and providing the opportunity for school sites to access behavior training facilitated by our Student Supports team.  As a next step to our Trauma Informed training, staff will also be trained in Restorative Practices.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
54105465430327|La Sierra High|6|La Sierra uses surveys developed by student leadership, the executive leadership, parents, and the healthy school survey indicate the following statistics and are areas being addressed by their community in new initiatives daily: 75% or more of students reported that by coming to La Sierra they have become a better student overall and know where to go for help academically/emotionally. They feel a sense of belonging. While… 30% of students don’t feel they have support at home 80% of students have considered suicide La Sierra also uses local data to measure school climate: Since 2013 La Sierra has reduced its discipline by more than 50% Since 2013 La Sierra has reduced its drop out rate to less than 3% Since 2013 La Sierra has increased its college going rates to now 80%  Since 2013 La Sierra has increased its graduation rate to now 95.3% After further review of the data, the La Sierra team has developed new actions to provide SEL weekly for students.  In addition, they have staffed their school with 3 additional counselors to help address the need for mental wellness via a grant.|2019-10-09|La Sierra annually conducts climate surveys to ensure students receive support not just in academics but also mental wellness.  Programs and actions are developed by the faculty to ensure students continue to progress.|Met|2019
19646346014518|La Tijera K-8 Charter School Academy of Excellence|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19649076021984|La Verne Science and Technology Charter|6|La Verne is aligned to Pomona Unified School District using the results of the California Health Kids Survey (CHKS) as valid, reliable and consistent data. La Verne had a 6-point increase in each of the areas of School Connectedness and Caring Relationships from 2017-18 to 2018-19. There was also a 26 point increase in Meaningful Participation.  Also, according to the district’s School Climate Report Card (SCRC) [of which La Verne is very closely aligned] based on CHKS, fifth graders reported having a 6% increase in School Connectedness and 7% increase in Perceived School Safety from 2017-18 baseline scores to 2018-19. The District School Climate Index (SCI) on the District’s SCRC showed a positive change over the last five years for the secondary level. The SCI score for middle schools increased from 240 points in 2015 to 245 points in 2019 while the high school SCI score went up three points from 278 points in 2015 to 281 points in 2019. Although the middle and high school report cards show a decrease in the “Overall Supports and Engagement” subscale which includes the categories of Perceived School Safety and School Connectedness, the overall SCI score accounted for a significant positive change in Overall Low Violence and Substance Use over the years. The district has been rolling out PBIS and introducing teachers to trauma informed practices over the last couple of years which can help focus on improving areas of high expectations and caring relationships as well as school connectedness.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
23656230112300|La Vida Charter|6|The primary method of acquiring school climate data is through the end of year Parent and Student surveys and through discussion at the parent teas.   Students are asked if there is anywhere they feel unsafe.  If something is reported, the school takes immediate action.  But reports are rare. Parents are asked in different ways about their comfort level with the faculty and administration.  Actual results are published in the End of the Year Report for the District which is also posted on the school’s website.  The school continually receives on overall rating of 9.0 (or Higher) out of 10 from parents.  Suggestions and feedback received and recorded at parent teas are valuable and usually initiate implementation.  Visitors often describe the school as a sweet place, and that the community feels like a family.  Being inspired by Rudolf Steiner’s educational model, the school is filled with beauty and nature which provide a sense of calm.  Additionally, the location on a beautiful 5000 acre historic ranch allows most everyone to relax a  little when they arrive.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
07617130000000|Lafayette Elementary|6|Results of the Healthy Kids Survey though overwhelmingly positive, indicated we have a few target areas that we have identified for further support and action. These areas include physical and emotional safety at the elementary school and perceived school safety at the middle school.  School shootings across the nation has brought greater focus and fear around this area and results across the state have dropped. Our schools have worked to provide not only safety protocols, procedures and action plans, but also to build a safe environment emotionally and physically through our Multi-Tiered Systems of Support. Our schools have focused on all the adults in the building being an important part of a caring community has established a platform for them to grow with their relationships with students. At the elementary schools, the focus has been with professional learning communities taking on the role of developing actions at each site for climate and character building. The emphasis is on establishing a positive school climate and instilling critical academic, social and emotional skills, as well as core character traits. The District will be sending out an additional survey in the spring to capture information from parents.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
30665550000000|Laguna Beach Unified|6|Maintaining a positive school climate in which students, parents, teachers, and staff feel safe and connected is a top priority for LBUSD. In recent years, programs and practices that address social-emotional wellness have become an integral part of our educational community. The District continually evaluates school climate related programs to ensure alignment and coherence between our TK-12 SEL curriculum, universal screeners, and parent education opportunities. In our annual survey taken by students, staff, and parents, more than 80 percent, ono average, agreed or strongly agreed that students feel safe, have at least one caring relationship with a staff member, believe school is a positive learning environment, and that staff care about students.  LBUSD has reinvested in the further development of the Professional Learning Community (PLC) processes and a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) to provide a positive learning environment, guaranteed and viable curriculum, and targeted intervention. The LBUSD community remains committed to continuous growth and positive relationship building that supports personalized, learning-centered experiences in schools. Based on the disaggregated school climate data, the District will continue to focus on improving and expanding its MTSS and SEL programs, including an emphasis on restorative practices.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
21653420000000|Laguna Joint Elementary|6|Due to the relative size of the district, a survey approach is not the most effective means of determining school climate. The small size of our school allows us to maintain a close pulse on the climate of the students and school climate.|2019-10-17|Both faculty members engage students in social emotional and conflict resolution skills coaching.|Met|2019
27660760000000|Lagunita Elementary|6|Lagunita's school climate has been a high priority for continuous improvement. Seven of our nine LCAP Actions have been focused on engagement, safety, and climate. Authentically continuous improvement requires reflection and adjustment even when outcomes are good, and Lagunita has been doing exactly that. Our parent survey showed a slight decline in engagement, as fifty parents filled out online surveys in fall of 2017 and only 47 filled it out in fall of 2018. However, the overall rating of one through five stars showed dramatic improvement. In 2017, 82% of parent responses shows 4 or 5 stars; while in 2018, 96% of parents rated their experience at 4 or 5 stars. The data from student surveys shows that student perceptions of safety have improved overall: 93% of students in grades 3-8 reported that they feel safe "most" or "all" of the time in 2017, while the following year 97% of the same group of students reported feeling safe at school "yes" or "usually." Lagunita opted to use its own survey in 2018, rather than continuing to utilize the CHKS, leading to some continuity concerns with data (the wording of response choices). However, that is one reason why we chose to administer our own survey, so that we could more effectively see change over time and control the language.   Areas of growth continue to be apparent in more subtle questions about emotional, as compared to physical safety. Our numbers were flat with regard to teasing about the body, but we collected more exact data, giving options for "rarely" or "usually" instead of simply yes or no. Fewer students reported having rumors spread about them, but too many still responded with "yes" or "rarely." Our most concerning data point was collected for the first time in 2018, when we asked students whether they had experienced depression in the past year. This question was asked due to parent input during the School Site Council review of our survey data. Future surveys will include this question, and the responses prompted action.   In response to teacher observations and parent and student surveys, Lagunita worked with a local agency to bring a counselor to campus for the first time. Lagunita staff collaborated to build support for SEL lessons in the classroom and developed a resource library for professional development and classroom instruction. Lagunita brought in a recess and PE program to improve cooperative and supportive play. Lagunita offered professional development for teachers focused on self-care and mindfulness. Our Fall 2019 survey will give us important data and feedback on the benefits of these actions.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
21653590000000|Lagunitas Elementary|6|A locally-developed climate survey was given during the 2017-2018 school year and indicated that the school continues to be viewed as safe by students.  A new survey is being planned for 2019-2020.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
17640550108340|Lake County International Charter|6|The overall experience of the school community, as reported by the surveys provided, indicate a positive school climate. The majority of families and students alike, reported feeling safe and cared for and stated  that the staff, teachers and administration were responsive and helpful. The physical environment was also rated well, parents and students enjoying the recent additions of garden and play equipment and the movement toward the creation of a commercial kitchen. Areas targeted for growth include increasing parent participation and volunteer time, building student resilience and responsibility through increased social-emotional focus including peer mediation self calming tools and additional means and frequency of communication regarding school events and activities.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
17101730000000|Lake County Office of Education|6|*I feel close to people at this school: Strongly disagree 1% Disagree 11% Neither disagree or agree 30% Agree 27% Strongly Agree 24% *I am happy to be at this school:  Strongly disagree 10% Disagree 13% Neither disagree or agree 31% Agree 25% Strongly Agree 21% *I feel like I am part of this school:  Strongly disagree 10% Disagree 15% Neither disagree or agree 30% Agree 20% Strongly Agree 25% *The teachers at this school treat students fairly: Strongly disagree 10% Disagree 14% Neither disagree or agree 30% Agree 22% Strongly Agree 25% *I feel safe in my school: Strongly disagree 5% Disagree 9% Neither disagree or agree 33% Agree 27% Strongly Agree 27%|2019-06-12|Students at our schools generally feel safe and connected at our schools.  In the next year we will strengthen professional development for all staff in building relationships and recognizing issues that our students deal with.|Met|2019
11625960000000|Lake Elementary|6|California Healthy Kids Survey is being distributed to staff and students in October 2019. Results will not be available prior to submission of Local Indicators. In the meantime, staff continue to monitor the connectedness opportunities students have at school as that was identifed as an area for growth in the previous survey. For instance, the Leadership Team is implementing a Kindness Curriculum in which kindness activities are introduced monthly and students have opportunities to engage in positive activities throughout the school year. In addition, a counselor has been provided to students on a weekly basis as recommended by both teacher and parent.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
33751760000000|Lake Elsinore Unified|6|LEUSD  Data - Overall, the survey received 934 respondents of which were broken down by: 652 parents, 36 classified staff, 94 teachers, 8 administrators, 10 community members, and 134 students. From these results, the District found the 2019 participation rate to indicate the importance to not only promote the survey, but also to implement specific strategies to increase the number of respondents.  Additional key learnings from the survey found the following: Engagement – Provides extra-curricular activities (71% of respondents), Monitors and communicates attendance (69% of respondents) , Staff care about students (68% of respondents), Welcoming environment (66% of respondents), Students feeling safe at school (64% of respondents), Parent workshops & family activities (64% of respondents), Students feel connected (61% of respondents), Staff has high expectations (62% of respondents), Students know where to go to seek help (62% of respondents), Parents included in advisory committees (61% of respondents), Anti-bullying expectations (60% of respondents), Provides translation services (47% of respondents), Students treat each other respectfully (43% of respondents), Site has an anti-bullying plan (36% of respondents),  College & Career Ready – Parent access to student grades online (80% of respondents), Implementing Standards ELA (77% of respondents) and Math (74% of respondents), Staff provides extra support to students (62% of respondents), Prepares college/career ready (58% of respondents), Students informed of HS graduation requirements (51% of respondents), Informed of A-G Requirements (43% of respondents), Understand the difference of A-G and grad requirements (32% of respondents), Parents informed of A-G (29% of respondents),  Basic Services –  Student access to curriculum via technology (approximately 77% of respondents), Providing Standards-aligned materials (75% of respondents),  Students using technology (73% of respondents),     Meaning – The District recognizes the importance of a more purposeful alignment of the survey questions to the LCAP and Local Indicators. Aligning these will allow data from the survey to support the development of the LCAP increasing the opportunity for all stakeholders to be actively involved in the decision-making process. Current survey data reveal there are discrepancies among stakeholders in their perceptions and responses. Areas of focus taken from these results are: Students feeling safe at schools where an established anti-bullying plan is in place; All stakeholders understanding A-G and graduation requirements; and Stakeholders feeling welcomed and a connectedness to school.     Use - LEUSD also recognizes the correlation between student engagement at school and their perception of school safety. Students’ perception of school safety often comes from outside the school setting through digital media.  Increasing digital citizenship is a need to ensure students use technology and media in a productive and|2019-11-14||Met|2019
09619030000000|Lake Tahoe Unified|6|CHKS survey is administered to grades 7, 9, & 11 in alternating years & was last given in 4-19; results will post to calschls.org/reports-data/ in 11-19.  % completed survey Grade 7: 78% Grade 9: 64% Grade 11: 67% Academic motivation-agree/strongly agree 7: 67% 9: 73% 11: 64% Strength: students try to do well & understand new things, interested in their work High expectations-adults in school-pretty or very much true 7: 66% 9: 69% 11: 65% Strength: students feel staff believe they will be successful, encourage them, acknowledge they have done a good job Meaningful participation at school-pretty or very much true 7: 20% 9: 24% 11: 26% Growth: engage students in class/school activities & guiding class &/or school events/rules   Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 7: 31% 9: 36% 11: 41% Considered suicide 7: 15% 9: 16% 11: 21% Challenge: identify students experiencing chronic sadness/considering suicide Strength: wraparound/intervention mental health services, academic/social-emotional counselling, medical support Connectedness agree/strongly agree 7: 53% 9: 60% 11: 48% Feel safe at school agree/strongly agree 7: 56% 9: 66% 11: 65% Growth: increase younger students’ sense of safety & older students’ school connection  To meet students’ critical needs, LTUSD is the only California school district with full time nurses at all sites. Nurses support staff for students with attendance issues and address minor illnesses & a SARB process reduces identification time of chronically absent students & improve attendance & academic performance at all sites, 4 schools met 18-19 target attendance rates. Students are identified on a 3-tier attendance scale ranging from at risk to severe with corresponding actions. Grades 6-12 have Academic Counselors on-site who also assist with intervention/wraparound services. A Student Advocate & Alternative Education Counselor are available districtwide.  LTUSD participates in the Get Focused Stay Focused program with Lake Tahoe Community College (LTCC). Freshmen enroll in a high school class to create 10-year career/education plans with dual enrollment at LTCC earning 5 college credits; at least 95% of freshmen enroll at LTCC. Students develop a vision of a productive, self-sufficient future through an academic & career focus. South Tahoe High (STHS) provides a Learning Lab for additional instruction & support.  Additional cameras were installed at STHS increasing site monitoring & maintains 4 security staff & a School Resource Officer. Students may report bullying through their school’s website &/or hotline, Student Body cards list crisis help contact numbers.  An intervention program is offered to sophomores who struggled academically & socially in 9th grade & face social-emotional barriers to academic success. Staff provide academic support & relationship building 1-block/day at Mt. Tallac alternative high school with the goal of students staying at STHS, building staff-student connections should they attend Tallac.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
17640300000000|Lakeport Unified|6|LUSD used the California Healthy Kids Survey results to evaluate students feelings about their school climate.  Results indicate that the majority of students do feel that a positive school climate exists in at their school site.  However, there is room for growth in the number of students experiencing positive relationships with their teachers.   Student Survey Results I feel close to people at  this school: 1% Strongly disagree, 11% Disagree, 32% Neither disagree or agree, 25% Agree, 24% Strongly Agree I am happy to be at this school: 12% Strongly disagree, 13% Disagree, 31% Neither disagree or agree, 22% Agree, 21% Strongly Agree I feel like I am part of this school: 14% Strongly disagree, 15% Disagree, 30% Neither disagree or agree, 20% Agree, 21% Strongly Agree The teachers at this school treat students fairly: 10% Strongly disagree, 14% Disagree, 32% Neither disagree or agree, 22% Agree, 23% Strongly Agree I feel safe in my school: 8% Strongly disagree, 9% Disagree, 33% Neither disagree or agree, 24% Agree, 27% Strongly Agree  Parent Survey Results Teachers at this school communicate with parents about what students are expected to learn in class: 12% Strongly disagree, 10% Disagree, 33% Neither disagree or agree, 26% Agree, 19% Strongly Agree Parents feel welcome to participate at this school: 6% Strongly disagree, 7% Disagree, 2% Neither disagree or agree, 39% Agree, 27% Strongly Agree School staff takes parent concerns seriously: 9% Strongly disagree, 11% Disagree, 27% Neither disagree or agree, 36% Agree, 17% Strongly Agree  Staff Survey Parent  Responses This school is a safe place for students and staff: 9% Strongly disagree, 22% Disagree, 1% Neither disagree or agree, 49% Agree, 19% Strongly Agree This school effectively handles student discipline: 12% Strongly disagree, 25% Disagree, 7% Neither disagree or agree, 42% Agree, 14% Strongly Agree This school is a place where staff is supported by administration: 6% Strongly disagree, 15% Disagree, 3% Neither disagree or agree, 50% Agree, 25% Strongly Agree|2019-05-29||Met|2019
43694920000000|Lakeside Joint|6|Lakeside JSD used the information gathered from an adjunct committee appointed by the Lakeside School Board of Trustees (the 5-year Planning Committee) to establish feedback from the school staff and larger parent community. This specific information was gathered through both a survey and during a Town Hall meeting. Though much of the information gained from both the survey and directly during the Town Hall meeting was broader than the Lakeside School climate, there was focused input and feedback on school climate that is used for this Dashboard reporting.  As a result of the information gathered from both the survey and Town Hall meeting input/feedback, Lakeside School made a number of adjustments, changes and additions to their school day and programs offered. Lakeside ramped up its PBIS (and MTSS) program and training of all instructional staff: teachers, paraprofessionals, Behavioral Specialist, Counseling Coordinator, and Parent Volunteers. An additional special education teacher was hired, as well as additional paraprofessionals, a full-time Behavioral Specialist, and part-time Counseling Coordinator to support the social and emotional learning of students and support of instructional staff. Lakeside School contracted with Playworks (a national non-profit educational organization) to provide a support coordinator who provides structured and supervised play focused on inclusive play, leadership, conflict resolution, and movement during each recess and a single classroom session each week.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
15635520000000|Lakeside Union|6|The district recognizes the need to engage in root cause analysis, and commit to a Continuous Improvement Process (CIP) to increase outcomes for all students and close performance gap(s) using multiple cycles of inquiry.  The district surveys students annually in the fall using the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) with 5th and 7th grade students to provide a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Below is a CHKS Summary of Key Indicators for 2018/2019.  Grade 5  School Engagement and Supports School Connectedness  57% Academic motivation  88% Caring adults in school  63% High expectations-adults in school  73% Meaningful participation  27% Facilities upkeep  60% Parent involvement in schooling  90% Social and emotional learning supports  56% Anti-bullying climate  60%  School Safety Feel safe at school  61% Been hit or pushed  47% Mean rumors spread about you  58% Called bad names or target of mean jokes  56% Saw a weapon at school  11%  School Disciplinary Environment Students well behaved  40% Students treated fairly when break rules  40% Students treated with respect  65%  Substance Use and Mental Health Alcohol or drug use  17% Marijuana use  0% Cigarette use  0% E-cigarette use  0% Experienced sadness  47%  Grade 7  School Engagement and Supports School connectedness  52% Academic motivation  72% Chronic truancy (twice/month or more)  4% Caring adult relationships  59% High expectations  71% Meaningful participation  22% Facilities upkeep  30% Parental involvement in school  54%  School Safety School perceived as very safe or safe  47% Experienced any harassment or bullying  44% Had mean rumors or lies spread about you  50% Been afraid of being beaten up  23% Been in a physical fight  22% Seen a weapon on campus  17%  Substance Use and Mental Health Current alcohol or drug use  8% Current marijuana use  4% Current binge drinking  1% Very drunk or "high" 7 or more times, ever  1% Been drunk or "high" on drugs at school, ever  3% Current cigarette smoking  1% Current electronic cigarete use  3% Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness  34% Considered suicide  19%  Summary The surveys provide information to help guide school improvement efforts and our Local Control and Accountability Plan, particularly in regard to the state priorities of enhancing school climate, pupil engagement, and parent involvement.  Our district’s focus is to ensure students feel safe and connected to our schools.  Reviewing the survey results is the first step in a data-driven decision-making process. The results of student surveys are compared to surveys taken by staff and parents to determine how consistent perceptions are.  We’ll continue to annually survey students, staff, and parents to help guide our school improvement efforts.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
16639660000000|Lakeside Union Elementary|6|Findings: We administered a local climate survey to 3rd and 7th grade students enrolled at Lakeside School during the fall of 2018. Our results showed that 100% of third grade students and 100% of 7th graders indicated they felt safe while at school. 99% of all students surveyed during the spring of 2018 stated they would like the school to continue to provide a Student Advocate. This position supports positive school climate efforts.  The district LCAP Goal 1 is aligned to this priority: Lakeside Union School District will provide a safe and aesthetically pleasing school environment. 100% of third grade and 100% of 7th graders felt that they were a part of the school community. Results were similar when asked if staff respects them at school. A very high number, 93% of all students surveyed during the spring of 2018 specified that they would like the school to continue to provide parent-student activities. We will continue to work with parents and students. For example,  Parents as Partner activities, a  community service event with the 8th grade partners, Kindergarten students, and parents working together to create art projects to be utilized for school events.  Lakeside strives to develop and maintain a positive relationship between parents, students, staff, and community.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37681890000000|Lakeside Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to students in fifth and seventh grade in the spring of the 2018-2019 school year. At the elementary level, there was a 66% response rate, with 338 of the district’s fifth grade students participating. At the secondary level, there was a 90% response rate, with 469 of the district’s seventh grade students participating.  Regarding school connectedness, 72% of elementary school students reported feeling connected to their campuses. The CHKS results also measured the 5th grade student responses by gender. Both females and males felt similarly about school connectedness, with 73% of females feeling connected to school compared to 72% of males. At the middle school level, 62% of students reported feeling connected to their campuses. Females and males in middle school also felt similarly about school connectedness, with 63% of males feeling connected compared to 61% of females. The middle school CHKS survey also disaggregates data by race/ethnicity. Students who identify as White or Hispanic/Latinx felt the highest levels of school connectedness, at 65% and 64% respectively, followed by 60% of students of two or more races. 50% of students who identify as American Indian/Alaskan Native and Black/African American felt connected to school.   Regarding school safety, 81% of elementary school students reported feeling safe at school all or most of the time, with 79% of females and 83% of males feeling safe at school. At the middle school level, 62% of students reported feeling "very safe" or "safe" at school, with 59% of females and 66% of males feeling safe. Disaggregated by race/ethnicity, students who identify as White or Hispanic/Latinx felt the highest levels of safety at school, at 66% and 65% respectively, followed by 60% of students of two or more races. 56% of students who identify as Black/African American felt safe at school, with 50% of students who identify as American Indian/Alaskan Native feeling safe.  The CHKS data suggests that some groups of students, particularly our black/African American students and American Indian/Alaskan Native students, feel less connected to school and less safe at school than White and Hispanic/Latinx students. As LUSD continues to work on building systems of support for all students, particular attention must be paid to these student groups so that ALL students feel safe and connected to school. Overall, students at both grade levels feel slightly less connected and safe at school than in years past. LUSD is responding by examining the root causes of this decline, and embarking upon a continuous improvement project based on a deep understanding of the issues faced by students leading to this decline followed by the application of research-based remedies and an analysis of progress.|2019-10-10|In 2018-2019, LUSD gathered a team of administrators, teachers, counselors to study academic and behavioral systems of support for students. In alignment with the LCAP, LUSD is continuing to focus efforts on improving outcomes for students, particularly students of color through increased staffing, services, and research based practices. For the 19-20 school year, LUSD has recommitted to utilizing PBIS in every school for Tier 1 supports. Additionally, some schools are piloting crew and morning meetings to foster connectedness between students and school. LUSD is also piloting the use of a social-emotional screener this year to identify students who feel less safe and connected to school so that they be provided with targeted interventions and supports.|Met|2019
39767600000000|Lammersville Joint Unified|6|Lammersville Unified School District (LUSD) gives both the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), which is delivered every other year and a local survey delivered on alternate years of the CHKS.  We engaged 443 parents and 1054 students in the local survey, and 358 5th grade students, 352 7th grade students and 334 9th grade students in the California Healthy Kids Survey.  CHKS results form 2017-18 reveal: 45% of 5th grade students, 64% of 7th grade students and 51% of 9th grade students feel "connected" to their school.  CHKS results also reveal: 87% of 5th grade students, 74% of 7th grade students and 73% of 9th grade students feel safe or very safe at school.  In grades 7 and 9, three and four students respectively felt unsafe, the rest were undecided. This data is from the previous CHKS survey, the new survey is given this year and has not yet been delivered when this document is complete. School "connectedness" is a key indicator for student success.  As a result of the survey findings, LUSD has implemented Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) along with the Character Counts program.  These programs are designed to educate in the realm of character and remediate student behavior through restorative practices.  Results of the local survey {Jan to June 2019} revealed 50% of 5th, 7th and 9th grade students had a real connection with a teacher in their school. 86% of students felt their teacher wanted them to succeed. Research shows positive teacher-student relationships lead to better student outcomes.  Though the results of student feedback are strong, improvement in student connectedness and behavioral supports should result in improved outcomes. Teachers and staff fostering positive student relationships should bolster student well-being and connectedness. Moving forward, LUSD is focusing on vertical alignment of programs and co/extra-curricular activities. This alignment serves to provide better connections and culture between K-8 and 9-12.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
15635600000000|Lamont Elementary|6|The student survey was conducted by the Lamont School District during the 2018-2019 school year. 7th graders responded to questions involving school climate; out of 332 students, 324 or 98% of students responded to the survey. The data indicates the following:   62% of the students responded agree or strongly agree on school connectedness on questions such us I feel close to people at this school, I am happy to be at school, I feel like I am part of this school, the teachers at this school treat students fairly, and I feel safe in my school. An average of 25% responded neither disagree nor agree to these questions and about 13% responded disagree and strongly disagree.  On school safety 55% of the students feel safe or very safe; about 34% feel neither safe nor unsafe, and 11% feel unsafe or very unsafe.   In order to increase the percent of students agreeing or strongly agreeing on school connectedness and safety, the district has implemented the Positive Behaviors Interventions and Support system (PBIS) district wide. We are providing a continuum of positive support to our students; establishing positive learning relationships with students, to ensure they feel safe, appreciated, and respected.   The data was reported through the Dashboard to the following stake holders: parents, community members, staff, board members during a board meeting.|2019-08-27||Met|2019
19646670000000|Lancaster Elementary|6|In the 2018-19 school year, Lancaster School District administered the Youth Truth Survey to Lancaster Families, Teachers, Classified staff, and both Middle School and Elementary School students in order to better understand the status and perception of LSD as a whole. The Youth Truth Survey is a nationally normed survey that provides a standing as to where Lancaster and schools within Lancaster place on a continuum from 1 - 5, where 1 is low and 5 is high. Students in grades 3-8 were surveyed in order to get a more comprehensive view of school climate. LSD collected 9,981 surveys over the 2018-19 school year. LSD observed that there were some very interesting and impactful trends that took place. As the is a nationally normed survey, we observed that  On some key survey points we observed that only 52% of families feel empowered to play a meaningful role in decision making at their school, and that 57% of families surveyed feel engaged by their school. 66% stated that they have opportunities to contribute to helping their school, 53% of families felt included in planning school activities. The information received provides that there is work to be done pertaining to building relationships with families.   We were able to derive the following themes and found that these themes were most applicable to the positive construction of Lancaster School District: build relationships; build capacity of leadership throughout the organization; build capacity of the site staff; build capacity for family engagement on both sides (families and staff); Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS); equity in all aspects of a student’s instruction; options - building a student’s access to school; maintaining a safe school.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647330108928|Larchmont Charter|6|Larchmont Charter School greatly values the input of all stakeholders, and assesses stakeholder satisfaction and perception of school climate twice yearly. In the Fall and Spring of each academic year, parents, students, and staff complete our respective surveys to provide feedback on the school’s academic environment, communication processes, physical environment including perceptions of safety and cleanliness, leadership structure, student engagement and connectedness to school, and overall satisfaction with the school. Students in grades 2 through 12 are given the survey, and therefore all grade spans of Larchmont are represented. In the last several administrations spanning the 2015-16 to 2019-20 school years, an average of nearly 80% of students responded positively to survey items related to feeling safe at school, and an average of 77% of students responded positively to survey items related to feeling engaged during class. Students reported overall satisfaction with Larchmont Charter School at rates averaging above 80% in the last several administrations, and we are expecting to see similar results in the next survey in the Spring of 2020. Once survey results are available, they are reported at regular meetings of the board of directors following the completion of the survey result analysis. Students who respond “agree” or “strongly agree” are considered as responding positively to an item, such that the percentages represent the proportion of students who agree that the school is safe, and that they are engaged in classes, for example. Given the consistently high ratings among students of Larchmont’s school climate and their sense of connectedness to the school, we believe we have met the standard emphasized by Priority 6, determining that students have continuously high perceptions of Larchmont’s safety and student engagement. These high perceptions of safety and engagement are areas of strength. In response to the results of the survey, improvements have been made to communication processes involving staff and parents, as well as revisions to the survey itself to limit the number of items such that more respondents will complete the survey and provide valuable feedback to the school.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
21653670000000|Larkspur-Corte Madera|6|LCMSD administers the CA HKS to 5th and 7th graders every other year. Fall 2017 results indicate 90% of 5th grade students report feeling safe at school and 93% report that teachers make it clear that bullying is not allowed most or all of the time. 90% of fifth grade students report that teachers will do something to help if bullying is reported. 80% of 7th graders report feeling "very safe or safe at school and 92% report that they experience caring adults at school.  Survey data is used to inform instruction and programs at all schools to foster school safety and student connectedness.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
41689570000000|Las Lomitas Elementary|6|In the 2017-2018 school year, LLESD 5th grade and 7th grade students, with parental consent, participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). The CHKS is conducted every 2 years and provides anonymous, voluntary information on youth behaviors such as physical activity, school safety, and other factors that promote school success. The results assist climate committees and staff in targeting resources effectively and developing programs.  In 5th grade, 120 students were surveyed (69% participation rate). Regarding questions about school safety: 88% of respondents reported feeling safe at school “most of the time” and “all of the time” combined. 39% of respondents reported having been called bad names or having mean jokes made about them. Regarding questions about school engagement and supports: 61% of students reported high levels of school connectedness, with 49% reporting a high level of caring adult relationships. However, only 8% of respondents reported high levels of meaningful participation, with 66% of students reporting moderate levels of meaningful participation in school. 0% of students reported ever smoking a cigarette.  In 7th grade, 135 students were surveyed (87% participation rate). Regarding questions about school safety: 84% of students reported feeling safe or very safe. 39% of respondents reported having mean rumors or lies spread about them. 25% of respondents reported experiencing harassment or bullying. Regarding questions about school engagement and supports: 78% of students reported high levels of school connectedness, and 51% reporting a high level of caring adult relationships. 16% of students reported high levels of meaningful participation, with 56% reporting moderate levels of meaningful participation. Also, in the category of mental & physical health, 18% of respondents reported that they experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness in the past 12 months. 4% reported current alcohol or drug use in the past 30 days, with only 1% reporting current cigarette smoking.  The survey results indicate a need for attention in the area of school engagement, especially regarding meaningful participation and caring adult relationships. Also, it indicates a possible need to improve address mental health services in our district for those students who may be struggling with reported chronic sadness/hopelessness.  LLESD has increased and structured meaningful engagement opportunities for parents and students as a way of improving caring adult to student and student to student relationships in a variety of ways.  The District offered curriculum at multiple grade levels to support social and emotional health, offers lunchtime activities that include clubs and intramurals, and the counselors and behaviorists work with small groups on problem-solving and healthy interactions. In 2018-19, the work of the Wellness Committee focused on mental health support for students and families, student nutrition, and employee wellness.|2019-10-09|LLESD teachers and counselors teach the Second Step social-emotional learning curriculum, this promotion of monthly school-wide character traits give students focus on positive behaviors. In the 4th and 5th grade classrooms, the Project Cornerstone's ABC Reader Program has parent volunteers visit classrooms monthly to read specially chosen picture books that focus the chosen character trait theme for the year.   LLESD support teachers interested in engaging in cross-grade student interactions. The elementary and middle school students frequently visit a "buddy class".   The Leadership Class focuses on organizing community service events in which the entire school populations participate. At recess and lunch, programs exist to help students better navigate social situations at recess. These include parent-volunteer run clubs, intramurals, structured games that promote inclusion of students with special needs, and small groups run by the behaviorist and counselors focusing on problem-solving and healthy interactions. The counselors meet with students whenever interpersonal altercations arise with the goal of conflict resolution. In addition to the small group and one-on-one sessions offered by the counselors throughout the day, the District supports Adolescent Counseling Service, ACS, counseling services to those students who require more intensive emotional support.|Met|2019
19101990135582|LA's Promise Charter High #1|6|LA’S Promise Charter High School #1 administered the Panorama SEL Survey to its students in grades 9-10- in Spring 2019. The survey focused on School Climate, School Engagement, and School Safety with a 95.5% participation rate.  SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 9-10 School Climate: • 48% stated that the energy at the school is very positive. • 29% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 22% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 25% are eager to participate in their classes School Safety: • 66% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 56% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.   The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the Panorama SEL Survey to improve and expand its Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) of schoolwide support services, communication, to continue to support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to continue to increase student participation rates for the Panorama Survey that will be administered in Spring 2020.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19101990134361|LA's Promise Charter Middle #1|6|Findings reported: LA’S Promise Charter Middle School #1 administered the Panorama SEL Survey to its students in grades 6-8 in Spring 2019. The survey focused on School Climate, School Engagement, and School Safety.  A total of 225 students participated (90.4% participation rate).  SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 6-8 School Climate: • 50% stated that the energy at the school is very positive. • 44% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  School Engagement: • 33% are extremely/quite excited to be going to class.  • 41% are extremely/quite interested in their classes. • 39% are eager to participate in their classes School Safety: • 55% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 68% stated it is not at all/slightly likely they would be bullied online from someone at their school.   The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the Panorama SEL Survey to improve and expand its Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) of schoolwide support services, communication, to continue to support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to continue to increase student participation rates for the Panorama Survey that will be administered in Spring 2020.|2019-09-26||Met|2019
19646830000000|Las Virgenes Unified|6|LVUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for students in Grades 4-12 in the 2018-2019 school year.  In reviewing these surveys, the items below were noteworthy.    LVUSD performed well above the state average for students Agreeing/Strongly Agreeing to the following statements: -At this school, there is an adult who cares about me -The teachers treat the students fairly  Additionally, LVUSD saw growth in the following indicators for the 2018-2019 school year: -Students’ sense of school connectedness -Students’ perspectives of facilities upkeep -Students’ perceived school safety  CHKS survey results also revealed the need to continue to provide mental health support to our students.  LVUSD formed a Community 360 Collaborative in 2018 between the district, Lost Hills Sheriff Station, and an assortment of mental health and wellness providers to address the mental and social health needs.  The Collaborative came together to create a one-stop place in LVUSD for wellness resources, crisis support, and educational events.  The LVUSD Board of Education is committed to the continual evaluation of school climate and culture and will again be administering the California Healthy Kids Survey in the 2019-2020 school year to monitor growth in alignment with LCAP goals.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19101990128025|Lashon Academy|6|The school safety and climate survey administered to students at Lashon Academy provided insightful information regarding the feelings of the students and focus areas in order to create the best learning environment for all students. With a 97% completion rate, the survey represented the whole student population including all significant subgroups. The survey was administered on the computer during the school day with added supports in order to make the survey accessible to all students. The survey questions were comprised of multiple choice, rating scales, and short answer. Overall, students reported feeling safe at school and looked forward to coming to school. This increase in positive school culture was seen through our huge gains in reducing our chronic absenteeism rate by 7% and increasing our ADA. School climate focused on increasing student motivation for attendance by creating more built in incentive systems as well as enforcing attendance policies more aggressively for those families needing additional support to attend school regularly. Students at Lashon Academy again reported high interest levels in the areas of reading, dance, art and project based learning experiences.   School behaviors decreased significantly with our school counselor incorporating daily social groups and looking to support those students who needed additional social/emotional support, helping to maintain a 0% suspension and expulsion rate. This will continue to be a focus goal area for us in the following years as we make an effort to implement a school wide comprehensive social/emotional program.   Based on student survey results and feedback from students, Lashon Academy Implemented a character program meeting the social/emotional needs of our students and Positive Discipline System school wide. The school counselor and administration were in charge of implementation. Staff members were provided with professional development workshops on positive behavior and logical consequences as well as on a weekly basis, students who exhibited positive behavior were awarded certificates from the yard staff. Each month students from each classroom who exhibited exemplary behavior, academic performance, attendance, and/or good citizenship received certificates as well as recognition during school assemblies. Students reported finding it easy to discuss academics, behaviors, and personal matters with staff along with a sense of community and belonging. To increase their sense of community and address the social/emotional needs of the students, the school counselor implemented the 2nd Step Social Emotional Development Program. This will continue to be a focus goal area for us in the following years as we look to create a more robust social/emotional support system.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
18101810000000|Lassen County Office of Education|6|Using the results from a student survey, students overall felt that they were treated fairly, important and could be successful, somewhat respected by each other, safe, supported and engaged, challenged and that expectations were at a high level. One student wrote, “My teacher literally is the best teacher ever. I’ve learned more from him than any other teacher ever. He made me like learning.”|2019-04-17||Met|2019
18641390000000|Lassen Union High|6|Overall school climate at Lassen High School showed significant gains based on the previous years Healthy Kids Survey, we were able to track two cohort groups 9th to 10th, and 11th  to 12th. The feeling of safety increased to 51% in 2018-19.   9th to 10th grade from 2017-18 to 2018-19 were the following Connectedness increased from 17% to 50% Academic Motivation increased from 31% to 66% Feeling of Adults that Care increased from 21% to 60% High Expectations increased from 30% to 67% School Safety decreased from 41% to 40% Bullying increased from 42% to 45%  Feeling of Sadness increased from 35% to 45% Considered Suicide increased from 26% to 35%  11th grade to the 12th grade year 2017-18 to 2018-19 were the following: Connectedness increased from 12% to 54% Academic Motivation increased from 19% to 60% Feeling of Adults that Care increased from 29% to 66% High Expectations increased from 32% to 71% School Safety increased from 41% to 47% Bullying decreased from 38% to 26%  Feeling of Sadness increased from 41% to 44% Considered Suicide decreased from 31% to 23%|2019-04-09||Met|2019
52715630000000|Lassen View Union Elementary|6|We have just recently completed our Healthy Kids Survey but are waiting for the results.  We have conducted our own student survey every year for the last four years.    Data- Student Connectedness has decreased and Students Feeling Bullied have slightly increased over the last two years.  Student ratings of their year have also decreased.  Meaning- Our student enrollment has increased over the last three years.  Our rules and dress code and more stringent than most public school districts and some students have difficulty adjusting to them.  We have also noticed an increase in online harassment over the last few years.  Use- Starting last year, we increased our counseling services from one to three days per week.  We have invested in Social Emotional Curriculums and have focused our Professional Development this year in response to the growing needs of our students.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
52714720134403|Lassen-Antelope Volcanic Academy (LAVA)|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
43694274330668|Latino College Preparatory Academy|6|DATA Demographics 93% identified as Latinos/Hispanics 3% identified themselves of two or more races 4% declined to state Student Services: The survey reflected that students were receiving the following services: ELLs 17% Reduced/Free lunch 68% Special Education 7% Counseling 16% 504/accommodations 2%  Athletics 7% Clubs 13% Bus passes 14%. Level of Instruction 100% of respondents stated that they were very satisfied or satisfied with the level of instruction students were receiving. School Climate 100% reported that they were very satisfied or satisfied with the school’s efforts to maintaining and/or increasing student attendance and involving students in school activities. 96% stated they felt the campus was safe/very safe.   College Preparedness 76% of respondents reported that they expect their student to attend a 4-year college; 16% reported they would attend a Junior College, and 8% reported that their student would join the work force immediately upon graduation. 27% of parents stated that they were aware of the college entrance requirements, while 73% reported that they were not aware of the requirements. 96% reported that they were able to meet with their student’s counselor to ensure that the appropriate were being taken for college admission.  91% agreed that parents and students have regular access to counselors. 27% reported that they were aware of scholarship availability and understood how to apply for financial aid.  73% reported that they were not aware of it. Ability to Access and Utilize the Student Information System: 29% use it frequently 16% use it on occasion 31% did not know about it 2% do not use it  Textbooks, facilities and credentialed teachers 98% indicated that the school provides the appropriate number of textbooks and learning materials, as well as a well-maintained school, and appropriately credentialed teachers.  2% did not indicate. Assessments/Evaluation When asked about the school using a variety of methods to assess outcomes, participants reported the following: -11% totally aware  -38% aware -40% somewhat aware  -11% not all aware Suggestions Take into consideration both the language and academic level of each student, especially since not all students speak English as their first language.  Teachers need to understand how to best support students, differentiate instruction, and to work in partnership with families. Student voice needs to be better embedded into decision making  Bring more programs for advanced and undocumented students.  More support for students after school. More supervision on campus, and better monitoring of morning traffic patterns+parking lot. More frequent communication with parents about their student’s progress, and more timely communication when they fall behind. (Cont.)|2019-10-30|MEANING:  The stakeholder survey makes clear that while families are generally happy at LCPA, there are still areas of growth that remain and need to be addressed.  These are areas of expanded student support, improved supervision and student safety, and improved communication with families.  USE:  Based on stakeholder feedback from the survey, LCPA is committing to make the following improvements for the upcoming 19-20 academic year :  More regular communication with families through D and F policy.  (New parent communication policy between teachers and families has been implemented as of October 2019) Multiple times a year mailing assessment data to all families so that they are better informed of their children’s performance and progress. (first mailing with go out at the end of October) Work to establish a tutoring center for additional academic support and ability to work on homework with guidance. (Tutoring Center exists on all campuses as of October 21st, first sessions began on October 3rd) Establish an Office Hours policy to make outside-of-class-support more predictable for families and students. Hire additional security staff to better monitor campus. (additional security staff have been added as of October, 2019) Increase the amount of cameras to eliminate monitoring blind spots on campus.  (additional cameras have been added to LCPA’s campus as of October 2019)|Met|2019
01771800138289|Latitude 37.8 High|6|Latitude will administer the Panorama Student Survey twice a year, once in the fall and once in the spring. The Panorama Student Survey, which was developed in partnership with researchers from the Harvard Graduate School of Education, measures student perceptions about school climate.  Results from the most recent administration of the Panorama survey yielded the following findings:  On the School Safety measure (which captures perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school), Latitude students reported an average score of 4.1 out of 5. On the Rigorous Expectations measure (which assesses how much students feel that their teachers hold them to high expectations around effort, understanding, persistence, and performance in class), students reported an average score of 4.0 out of 5. On the Teacher-Student Relationships measure (which assesses how strong the social connection is between teachers and students within and beyond the classroom), students reported an average score of 3.6 out of 5. On the Sense of Belonging measure (which assesses how much students feel that they are valued members of the school community), students reported an average score of 3.2 out of 5.  On the Cultural and Linguistic Competence measure (which assesses how much students feel they are treated equitably at the school and provided with culturally relevant instructional material), students reported an average score of 3.7 out of 5.  In addition, twice a year, Latitude will administer the Tripod Survey, a local climate survey that captures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness with a focus on each individual teacher’s practice. The survey generates information about how students experience teaching practices and learning conditions in the school, focused on the 7Cs. The 7Cs are the central constructs in the Tripod framework, and each construct is supported by research in peer reviewed publications that have appeared in education books and journals over the past several decades. Tripod uses a database of millions of survey responses to calibrate results against broadly anchored norms. The 7Cs are:  Care: Show concern and commitment Classroom management: Sustain order, respect, and focus  Clarify: Cultivate understanding and overcome confusion Challenge: Press for rigor and persistence Captivate: Inspire curiosity and interest Confer: Invite ideas and promote discussion Consolidate: Integrate ideas and summarize key points|2019-10-31||Met|2019
10622810000000|Laton Joint Unified|6|Laton Unified School District conducted annual surveys in the fall of the 2018/2019 school year. These surveys were offered to all students, parents and staff within the 4th-12th grade and K-12 ranges of the  school district. Approximately 90 participants took part in the 20 question survey. The stakeholders perceptions is critical to creating awareness and understanding of current programs, trends and philosophies while presenting insight into the shaping of the next academic year. Key findings from the surveys relate to the district’s position of maintaining and promoting a safe, clean and positive environment for every student. When given the option of don’t know, strongly agree, agree, disagree and strongly disagree, the majority of the participants reported that they agreed their schools were a safe place for students and staff. Most stakeholders agreed the campuses at LUSD are clean and in good condition. Using the same scale, the survey indicated that most stakeholders agreed students feel motivated and supported. It is also important to note, the survey also indicated that students: agreed that LUSD has teachers and staff who make them feel cared for; agreed that LUDS has interesting activities for them to participate in; strongly agree that LUSD has teachers and grown ups who make it clear that bullying is not allowed.   While the survey data is promising, LUSD realizes the need to provide additional levels to improve school safety and school climate. Actions to address challenges identified through the disaggregated data include: the continuation of the present number of campus security officer; continuing counseling services at both sites by employing two full time counselors and one full time district psychologist; continuation of PBIS programs. These items can be found in the LUSD’s 2019-2020 LCAP. Another improvement that will be put into place is a review of the types of surveys created to measure school climate. A revamping of the survey and fields to collect more concise and accurate data will take place for the 2019/2020 school year. Student input/perceptions is essential to supporting student learning and LUSD looks forward to the survey process because it represents voices, concerns and trends that are used to direct and support the District’s goals found in the Local Control and Accountability Plan. The District’s goals center on Student Learning, Professional Growth, Community Engagement and School Climate and Culture.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
09619110000000|Latrobe|6|School Connectedness - The total number of responses from grades 4-8 was 73. 65% of students feel close to people at their school. 19% were neutral on the question and 17% or 12 students did not feel connected at school.   School Safety - 83% of 73 students responded that they feel safe at school. 4%  or 3 students responded that they did not feel safe at school.  The results of the 2018-2019 survey reinforced the desire of the staff to be trained in Positive Behavior Intervention Strategies. While our results are positive we all felt that we can be more deliberate in our attention to school climate and connectedness. The training began at the beginning of this school year, 2019-2020 and will continue throughout the year.|2019-10-22|The Site Council/Parent Advisory Committee reviewed the results. One change that will be made in the survey format for next year will be the elimination of the Neutral choice. We felt that without that choice we will gather more accurate information.|Met|2019
12626870124263|Laurel Tree Charter|6|We sent out a survey on school climate in our Monday Note: School staff understand my student's needs and provide adequate levels of support.   4.3 out of 5 Parents feel welcome to participate at this school.  4.1 out of 5 School staff take parents concerns seriously.  My concerns are listened to and acted on.    4.3 out of 5 Teachers at school communicate with parents about how students are doing.   3.2 out of 5  While we score highly on the first three, we need to do more to communicate with parents effectively.  We will consider adding or modifying an LCAP goal to improve this.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
36750440118059|LaVerne Elementary Preparatory Academy|6|School Climate Survey: Elementary  On September 24, 2019, a school climate survey was conducted by scholars in grade 5. The results are as follows:  I like school. N:4%; S:26%; O:36%; A:34% I feel like I do well in school. N:0%; S:12%; O:30%; A:58% My school wants me to do well. N:0%; S:4%; O:8%; A:88% My school has clear rules for behavior. N:0%; S:2%; O:18%; A:80% Teacher treat me with respect. N:0%; S:8%; O:18%; A:74% Good behavior is noticed at my school.  N:0%; S:10%; O:52%; A:38% I get along with other students.  N:0%; S:24%; O:22%; A:54% I feel safe at school.  N:4%; S:26%; O:18%; A:52% Students treat each other well.  N:2%; S:18%; O:32%; A:48% There is an adult at my school who will help me if I need it.  N:2%; S:8%; O:24%; A:66% Students in my class behave so that teachers can teach. N:4%; S:42%; O:32%; A:22%  The data from the school climate surveys show that majority of our scholars in this grade level are positive about LEPA.  A positive from these findings is that scholars at LEPA are treated with respect by teachers who want what is best for the scholars they serve. Our teachers practice developing a growth mindset and positive reinforcement. This is making the difference in the education of the scholars we serve.  Furthermore, an area for growth is for teachers to further investigate the stimulus for scholars not feeling safe at school and gaining clarification over behavior in the classrooms so future steps may be taken during our annual safety plan review.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19646910000000|Lawndale Elementary|6|All students need a school environment where they feel welcomed, connected, and safe.  We have chosen to use the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to help us monitor progress in this area. Research says that students who attend schools with positive climates engage in fewer risk–taking and violent behaviors, have fewer discipline referrals and school suspensions, and report feeling safer at school. For the last two years we’ve focused on a subset of specific items from the CHKS survey that we want to leverage: Academic Motivation (5th: 50% 7th: 36%), Caring Adult Relationships (5th: 47% 7th: 28%), High Expectations (5th: 47% 7th: 41%), Feel Safe at School (5th: 72% 7th: 58%), Mean Rumors Spread About You (5th: 52% 7th: 20%), Been Called Names or Jokes About You (5th: 52% 7th: 43%)  A committee was created that included Student Support Services, District Social Worker, and School Site Social Workers.  The committee took the lead in responding to the needs that surfaced from the data.  The committee met last school year and planned professional learning that addressed some of the social emotional needs that came from the survey data.  The professional learning started this school year and is district wide serving all Transitional Kindergarten to 8th grade teachers.  Four sessions have been scheduled and feedback is being collected in order to inform the next session.  In addition to the certificated professional learning, the district is offering 3 classified trainings to make sure that everyone has the same information and are able to support students and maintain that positive school climate.  The professional learning focused on the 4 R’s in trauma: 1. Realize the prevalence of trauma  2. Recognize the impact of trauma on development behavior  3. Respond in a trauma informed way 4. Resist re-traumatization Directly targeting social emotional student support, we have partnered with 45 interns that are supported by 9 social workers to work with students in individual and group counseling, implementation of PBIS, our Second Step program, crisis management, as well as attendance monitoring.   One of our middle schools has implemented the WEB Program (Where Everybody Belongs).  6th grade students come to school before the new school year begins to meet for orientation. 7th and 8th grade WEB leaders facilitate team building activities, review middle school expectations, tour the school and classrooms, help find rooms on their schedule, answer questions, and more.   At our second middle school, they have implemented a new 6th grade Orientation program. 6th grade students come to a 3-day orientation the week before school begins. The goal is for students to learn about the school, do some team building and getting-to-know you activities, introduce our PBIS CARE motto, and review middle school expectations, transition from elementary school to middle school with a focus on both academics as well as social emotional.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
23739160000000|Laytonville Unified|6|Mental health and safety indicators. The following table summarizes 2015-2019 responses to additional questions that are directly or indirectly related to, or that may impact, student mental health and safety. Many of the reported indicators are school based; overall an average of 50% of Laytonville students selected “Agree” or “Strongly Agree” when responding to school connectedness scale questions. Some key findings:  Strengths: • Fewer students are skipping class (decreased from 39% to 31%). • More students are feeling safe at school (increased from 51% to 58%). Areas of Concern: • Fewer students believe that a teacher or other adult at school really cares about them (decreased from 74% to 61%), although more students report that a teacher tells them when they do a good job (increased from 48% to 65%). • More students are experiencing violence at school. The number reporting that they have been pushed, slapped, or hit increased from 18% to 30%, the number reporting being the target of mean lies or rumors increased from 27% to 39%, and the number reporting being made fun of for their looks or the way they talk increased from 24% to 36%. • Students are also reporting more harassment at school, with 37% reporting being bullied or harassed for at least one of the four reasons listed in the table, and more cyberbullying (from 8% to 28%). • The number of students reporting gang involvement more than doubled, increasing from 6% to 15%. • 41% of students report having sad and hopeless feelings, up from 36% in 2015. • The number of students reporting that they had seriously considered suicide more than doubled, increasing from 15% in 2015 to 34% in 2019.   Goals: Continue implementing Multi-Tiered Systems of Support in order to address areas of concern.   Provide a variety of counseling support services including counseling enriched support services Collect and disaggregate data in order to better identify areas where improvements can be made.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
01100176002000|Lazear Charter Academy|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, Lazear administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and Lazear has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, Lazear students rated 3.6 on Student Relationships, which includes evaluating sense of belonging and sense of safety. Based on results from the survey, Lazear will continue to implement a Strong Start curriculum to ensure strong classroom cultures that support belonging and student learning.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
24657220000000|Le Grand Union Elementary|6|3rd, 5th, and 8th grade students took the Healthy Kids Survey during the 2018-2019 school year.  The survey revealed that 78.5% of students feel safe at school, and 76% feel connected to the school. The results of the survey reflect a drop in students feeling safe at school.  This may have been due to a change in Administration, but through consistent building of relationships, the district foresees an increase of students feeling safe and connected to our school.  Our district also continues the consistent use of PBIS and "The Viking Way", along with Anti-bullying prevention strategies, such as the STOPit app. and bullying awareness month, in hopes to improve the relationships among students.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
24657300000000|Le Grand Union High|6|The CHKS survey was administered to grades 9, 11 by the LEA during the spring of 2017.  Two questions that were of particular import to the LEA in evaluating priority 6 were: 1. The questions relating to school connectedness.  These questions differ slightly at each grade level, but they measure students' sense of connectedness to the school.  18.5% of students say they feel connected with their school.  2. The questions relating to school safety.  These questions measure whether students feel safe at school.  67.0% of students say they feel safe at school.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
38684783830411|Leadership High|6|We administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in February of 2018 to 9th and 11th graders. The School Climate Index resulting from that survey was 290, as compared to the 2015-17 state average of 300.  Some highlights of the data: Strengths Students indicated that the school had high expectations and that they experienced caring relationships--similar schools percentile = 85%  Students indicated that they felt safe at school  --similar schools percentile = 79% Areas of growth: School connectedness--similar schools percentile = 49% Opportunities for meaningful participation --similar schools percentile = 6%|2019-10-29|Teachers and other staff analyzed the results and crafted proposals to address the sense of school connectedness and opportunities for meaningful participation. As a result, several clubs were formed this year with plans more to be established in the future. Additionally, to build on the already strong sense of safety on campus, the staff  has committed to teaching the anti-harrassment policy schoolwide.|Met|2019
33103300125237|Leadership Military Academy|6|RCEA annually administers a voluntary survey to all stakeholders to measure perceptions of school safety and connectedness, as well as the other state priorities. School climate is also incorporated in LCAP goal 2. In 2019, students comprised over 3/4 of the respondents, parents just under 15%.    Survey items on priority 6 (school climate) weighed relatively equal on the most and least agreed lists. Adults responded significantly more positively than students.  They agreed that students felt connected to school and that staff cares about students.  Students perceived more unfair treatment from teachers, and disrespect from their peers, but feel that staff care about them and there are clear consequences for breaking the rules.  The majority of respondents (81.1%) were at least somewhat satisfied with the effects of programs maintaining a positive school climate. Over 66% of parents and 33% of students were completely satisfied. Overall, almost 3/4 of respondents would like to see more programs that promote a positive school site.   In response to LCAP goal 2 metrics, the survey, and Dashboard indicators, RCEA implemented PBIS and Capturing Kids Hearts to improve overall school climate through consistency, clear expectations and consequences, and building respectful relational capacity.|2019-10-17|RCEA is a small military themed school.  Students are expected to follow certain procedures and protocols throughout the day that also have an effect on school climate.|Met|2019
33103300134320|Leadership Military Academy - Indio|6|RCEA Indio annually administers a voluntary survey to all stakeholders to measure perceptions of school safety and connectedness, as well as the other state priorities. School climate is also incorporated in LCAP goal 2.  In 2019, students comprised over 70% of the respondents, parents 15%.    Survey items on priority 6 (school climate) weighed relatively equal on the most and least agreed lists. Adults responded significantly more positively than students.  They agreed that students felt connected to school and that students know where to go for help with a problem.  Students felt disconnected to school, and disrespect from their peers, but feel teachers have high expectations and are willing to provide extra help.  The majority of respondents (81.7%) were at least somewhat satisfied with the effects of programs maintaining a positive school climate. Almost 59% of parents were completely satisfied. Overall, almost 3/4 of respondents would like to see more programs that promote a positive school site.   In response to LCAP goal 2 metrics, the survey, and Dashboard indicators, RCEA Indio implemented Capturing Kids Hearts to improve overall school climate through consistency, clear expectations and consequences, and building respectful relational capacity.  Restorative practices are also being investigated as a means to improve school climate and promote a safe learning environment.|2019-10-17|RCEA Indio is a very small military themed school.  Students are expected to follow certain procedures and protocols throughout the day that also have an effect on school climate.  Additionally, enrollment is approximately 100 students which affects climate and survey results.|Met|2019
01611920108670|Leadership Public Schools - Hayward|6|LPS Hayward students complete annual Panorama school climate surveys to provide input and feedback regarding their school experience. The response rate for the Spring 2019 Student School Climate Survey was 86% (516 of 600 students).  Panorama national benchmarks show LPS Hayward to be at the 60th percentile nationally for sense of belonging for urban high schools serving predominantly low-income students and families, and at the 50th percentile for all high schools. Forty-five percent of LPS Hayward students responded that they completely belong or belong quite a bit at school. Thirty-three percent of students expressed that they somewhat belong, 12% reported belonging a little bit and 9% not at all.   Looking at key subgroups, 41% of Special Education, 36% of students with a GPA < 2.0, 29% of African American, and 49% of English Learner students responded that they completely belong or belong quite a bit at school.  While there are still gaps to overcome, these results are significantly strengthened from the prior year for African American students and student with low GPA. Continuing focus areas include African American students’ sense of belonging and academic engagement and identity of students not yet meeting course standards. LPS holds student sense of belonging as a core goal.  We work to offer curriculum, instruction, student support, family and community partnership, and general organizational values and ways of being that uphold and strengthen belonging. Student survey results were a key source for data-driven year-end reflection and planning to inform improvement at network, school and classroom levels. We continue to leverage student survey data to guide ongoing improvement and are now in the midst of the fall 2019 survey administration.|2019-10-19|Met*|Met|2019
07617960101477|Leadership Public Schools: Richmond|6|LPS Richmond students complete annual Panorama surveys to provide input and feedback regarding the school overall as well as each class in which they are enrolled.   The response rate for the Spring 2019 Student Classroom Survey was 78%. In addition, 76% of students took the whole-school-focused survey Student School Survey. Panorama national benchmarks show LPS Richmond to be at the 50th percentile nationally for sense of belonging for urban high schools serving predominantly low-income students and families. Thirty-eight percent of students responded that they completely belong or belong quite a bit at school. Forty-one percent of students expressed that they somewhat belong, 15% reported belonging a little bit and 7% not at all.   Looking at key subgroups, 47% of Special Education and 39% of English Learner students responded that they completely belong or belong quite a bit at school.  Belonging was low for students with a GPA < 2.0, with 29% responding that they completely belong or belong quite a bit.   We continue to work to strengthen conditions for belonging. Focus areas include African American students’ sense of belonging and academic engagement and identity of students not yet meeting course standards. Ratings in Spring 2019 from the Student Classroom Survey were positive in all categories:  Rigor, Manage, Plan, Achieve, Culture.  Large majorities of students, ranging from 73-81%, responded strongly agree or agree across these categories. 79% responded strongly agree or agree to “this teacher cares about me and my goals.” As with the school survey, some equity gaps exist.  70% of Special Education, 74% of African American, and 68% of English Learner students responded strongly agree or agree to “this teacher cares about me and my goals”. LPS holds student sense of belonging as a core goal.  We work to enact curriculum, instruction, student support, family and community partnership, and general organizational values and ways of being that uphold and strengthen belonging. Student survey results were a key source for data-driven year-end reflection and planning to inform improvement at network, school and classroom levels. We continue to leverage student survey data to guide ongoing improvement and are now in the midst of the fall 2018 survey administration.|2019-10-19|Met|Met|2019
19647330137513|Learning by Design Charter|6|N/A|2019-10-31||Met|2019
37683380106799|Learning Choice Academy|6|Findings reported: The Learning Choice Academy administered a student survey to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 311 students completed the survey, a 43% participation rate.   FINDINGS:  The following are student survey findings: • 80% feel they can be honest in their communication with TLC Leadership • 74% feel they receive timely information about policies, procedures, and plans that affect them. • 75% stated that there has been improvement in communication over the past year.  • 86% are satisfied with their job.  • 23% find PLC during staff meetings very/extremely useful.  • 98% agree adults at this school really care about every student.  • 95% agree adults listen to what students have to say. • 92% agree adults feel a responsibility to improve the school.  • 95% agree adults work hard to ensure a safe and supportive learning environment  The Leadership Team will review, analyze and report student survey result findings and will develop strategies to increase participation rate on the student survey.  In addition, the school will research evidence-based student surveys to administer in Spring 2020 as part of the LCAP requirements; and administer a separate Student & Parent survey for each of the TLC Charter Schools.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37680230138073|Learning Choice Academy - Chula Vista|6|Findings reported: The Learning Choice Academy – Chula Vista administered a student survey to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 200 students (Gr 4-12) completed the survey, a 71% participation rate.   FINDINGS:  The following are student survey findings:  177 MS/HS students (Grades 6-12) • 85% Agree/Strongly Agree they are happy to be at this school. • 85% Agree/Strongly Agree they feel like they are part of this school.  • 98% Agree/Strongly Agree they feel safe at this school.  • 88% Agree/Strongly Agree that this school communicates with parents about what students are expected to learn in class.  • 95% Agree/Strongly Agree that school staff take student concerns seriously.  • 77% Agree/Strongly Agree that there is a teacher or some other adult that cares about them (student).   23 Students in Grades 4-5: • 83% stated they are happy to be at this school most/all of the time.  • 78% stated they feel like they are part of this school most/all of the time • 88% Agree/Strongly Agree they feel safe at this school.  • 96% stated that there is a teacher or some other adult at the school that cares about them (student).  • 87% stated that the school teaches students to care about each other and treat each other with respect, most/all of the time.  • 83% stated that teachers and other grown-ups make it clear that bullying is not allowed most/all of the time • 78% stated that if they inform a teacher that they’ve been bullied, the teacher will do something to help, most or all of the time.   The Leadership Team will review, analyze and report student survey result findings and will develop strategies to increase participation rate on the student survey.  In addition, the school will research evidence-based student surveys to administer in Spring 2020 as part of the LCAP requirements.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
27660922730240|Learning for Life Charter|6|LFLCS has conducted a climate survey each year since 2015.  The schools approval rating jumped during the past two years to an average of 91%, from an average of 85% in the first years of the survey.The most recent results indicate students are feeling safe, supported and connected at school.  We will continue to work on this as we deepen our implementation of trauma informed care, via on-site, whole-staff training.|2019-07-25||Met|2019
01612590115592|Learning Without Limits|6|To better understand the needs of students, parents, and staff, LWL administers the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). Developed by the Alliance for the Study of School Climate (ASSC) based at CSU Los Angeles, the SCAI is a reliable, valid instrument for measuring school climate, and LWL has been using it for multiple years. On a 5-point scale, LWL students rated 3.5 on Student Relationships, which includes evaluating sense of belonging and sense of safety. Based on results from the survey, LWL will continue to implement a Strong Start curriculum to ensure strong classroom cultures that support belonging and student learning.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
19648810118075|Learning Works|6|Our school targets students who have struggled to graduate from high school and emphasizes the goal of re-engagement in learning toward accomplishing a high school diploma while increasing mathematics knowledge and skills, becoming proficient writers and gaining life skills to be more successful after graduation. For the 2018 local indicators, LW reported results of a Graduation Exit survey completed by 52 graduating students from the 2017-18 school year to measure and reflect on school climate.   In 2019-20, LW will administer a survey that is a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness in at least one grade within the grade spans that LW services (6-8 and 9-12) to report to the board and stakeholders for reporting in 2020. The results reported in 2018 are provided below. The 2018 survey included a total of 21 questions, with a mix of selected response and open-ended questions. Reflecting our target students, thirteen percent of respondents reported being on probation or parole at the time of their graduation. Twenty-seven percent of respondents indicated that they have a child or children, although no graduates have more than one child.   At graduation, the vast majority of students reported high levels of satisfaction with the program we offer, which emphasizes relationship building and individual connections. Almost all graduates (90%) reported that Learning Works prepared them for their next steps, 10% reported “maybe” and no students indicated that Learning Works had not prepared them well.   While most students reported that Learning Works could not have done anything else to help prepare them, a few students indicated that more conversations about what comes after high school, facilitating more math classes, and having summer school as possible improvements, which informed the focus of improvements in our offerings in the 2018-19 school year.    Just over half of the graduates identified “Staff support/relationships/motivation” as the best part of their time at Learning Works. A few students reported that the best part of Learning Works was “the teacher and Chaser always pushing me to not give up” and “the close interaction you have with your peers and teacher.” About a quarter identified the learning environment/working with students as the best part as indicated by statements such as “meeting people of all backgrounds and experiencing a new environment.”   The results from this survey have informed staff discussions regarding improving the learning environment and validated the utility of our general approach, in that they acknowledge self-imposed barriers and how important it is to continue to reach out and bring students back to school, regardless of how many times it takes. The positive feedback regarding the close relationships that had such an impact on graduates reinforce our model of rigor, relationship and relevance and help us to reflect as a staff.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
43104390136655|Legacy Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
23752180000000|Leggett Valley Unified|6|The Leggett Valley Unified School District took the Healthy Kids survey for all grade levels 5-12 in the spring of 2019.  Unfortunately there was not much information provided as we are a very small district with student numbers at each grade span too small to give information tghat would be relevant to us.    As a school we do check the pulse of the students thorugh our ASM at Leggett Valley and Student Leadership at Whale Gulch schools.  These two tools have helped us to see where we are thriving as a school community and where we can look for growth in others.  From both of our tools we have pinpointed our greatest needs are to improve chronic absenteeism and helping students feel a part of the school in such an isolated community.  The Leggett Valley Unified School District is taking part in a county run chronic absenteeism grant that began last year and ends in 2020-2021.  We also are in the second year of continuous training in Restorative Justice practices.|2019-11-13|The suspension and expulsion rates in the Leggett Valley Unified School District have been continued to drop over the last six years.  Our work with Restorative Justice, along with our adult engagement with students are the primary reasons students feel safe and feel that they matter in our district.|Met|2019
37682050000000|Lemon Grove|6|The Lemon Grove School District annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5 and 7.  The reports generated by these responses provide detailed information as well as summaries of key findings.  These surveys provide a wealth of information to guide school improvement and inform decision-making for the Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP), specifically in regards to the state priorities of parent and student engagement and the importance of school climate. The Elementary Survey (Grade 5) consists of a Core Survey Module which includes:   Summary of Key Findings Demographics School Performance, Supports, and Engagement Supports for Learning at School Disciplinary Environment, Fairness and Respect School Violence, Victimization, and Safety Home Supports and Involvement in Schooling Alcohol and Other Drug Use Tobacco Use Physical Health The Secondary Survey (Grade 7) also consists of the Core Survey. In addition to the topics listed above, the Secondary Survey includes questions regarding Mental Health and Race/Ethnic Breakdowns.  Based on data from the elementary survey 61% of fifth grade students rated their Perceptions of School Connectedness as “high” and 64% reported Feeling Safe at School All or Most of the Time.  Based on data from the middle school survey 57% of seventh grade students rated their Perceptions of School Connectedness as “high” and 54% reported Feeling Safe or Very Safe at School.  The responses regarding safety reported by “Race/Ethnicity” for grade 7 students are below:  Race/Ethnicity Feeling Safe at School All Students 54% Hispanic/Latino 55% Asian 29% Black or African American 63% White 51% Two or More Races 53%|2019-10-08||Met|2019
16639820110205|Lemoore Middle College High|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is conducted every other year at LMCHS.  Student surveys at each individual site for different school requirements, such as WASC accreditation, LCAP or by the Student Services Department are also administered.  The other student surveys share similar results as the California Healthy Kids Survey.   Many of the current societal issues, such as bullying, access to social/emotional counseling, and school safety remain as important issues to all students.  In looking at the summary of key indicators, the results show some positive numbers, as well as, some key areas to focus on.  In looking at Response to the survey questions are as follows (percentage = Strongly Agree & Agree): • Students are encouraged to prepare and organize for classes – 94.5% • Students are taught in a variety of ways– 84.8% • This school is preparing me for college and my career – 84.8% • Teachers are approachable and show concern for student needs– 85.5% • This school provides challenging curriculum – 99.9% • Students have opportunities to express themselves at LMCHS – 77.4% • Rules and consequences for behavior are clear at LMCHS– 73.8% • Students are motivated by teachers to be successful– 86.1% • Students feel engaged in the school community and school spirit – 63.6% • Parents have access to a counselor or help with social/emotional needs – 85.2% • This school has quality programs for student’s talents & special needs – 85.3% • This school has a good reputation in the community – 97.1% • This school communicates the importance of respecting all cultural beliefs/practices – 73.5% • School activities are provided to meet my student’s needs & interests – 67.6% • This school keeps me well-informed about my student’s progress – 97.1% • This school responds promptly to my phone calls, messages and emails – 82.4% • Facilities are clean and well-maintained – 85.7% Survey data shows a need to familiarize students with the process for accessing services for personal and familial issues.  Responses show 50.2% of those surveyed disagreed or had no opinion regarding this familiarity.  Similarly, 12.5% of surveyed students disagreed with the statement that they feel safe at LMCHS.  When analyzing the results of the LMCHS Student Survey, the three goals outlined in the LCAP continue to be areas of focus. Goal #1 focuses on students being prepared for college and careers, so the goal of making the curriculum rigorous and relevant remains. Goal #2 looks at providing students with the needed supports to be successful in their academics. Behavior and safety may not be a high concern but students do state the need for more social and emotional supports. Goal #3 targets school safety, cleanliness and facilities being adequate to support student learning.  The development of the Student Services department in the 2018-2019 school year is a vital element to the use of MTSS and PBIS, which is constantly evaluated and adjusted to help student achievement.|2019-10-24|One area of focus is to continue to implement and adjust social and emotional supports for all students.  Suspension data suggests that reducing impediments for students is essential to keep students in class and continually progressing academically.|Met|2019
16639820136234|Lemoore Online College Preparatory High|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is conducted every other year at LUHSD.  Student surveys at each individual site for different school requirements, such as WASC accreditation, LCAP or by the Student Services Department are also administered.  The other student surveys share similar results as the California Healthy Kids Survey.   Many of the current societal issues, such as bullying, access to social/emotional counseling, and school safety remain as important issues to all students. In looking at the summary of key indicators, the results show some positive numbers, as well as, some key areas to focus on.  In looking at School Engagement and Supports, students responded positively. When analyzing the results of the LOCPHS Student Survey, the three goals outlined in the LCAP continue to be areas of focus. Goal #1 focuses on students being prepared for college and careers, so the goal of making the curriculum rigorous and relevant remains. Goal #2 looks at providing students with the needed supports to be successful in their academics. Behavior and safety may not be a high concern but students/parents do state the need for more social and emotional supports. Goal #3 targets school safety, cleanliness and facilities being adequate to support student learning.  The development of the Student Services department in the 2018-2019 school year is a vital element to the district implementation of Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports and Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports.   The district will continue to implement, evaluate and adjust the MTSS / PBIS system of interventions to assist in removing impediments to student learning.|2019-10-24|One area of focus is to continue to implement and adjust social and emotional supports for all students.  Survey data suggests that reducing impediments for students is essential to keep students in class and continually progressing academically.|Met|2019
16639740000000|Lemoore Union Elementary|6|In January 2019, a student survey was administered to 1,356 students in grades 4-8.  84.2% percent of 4-8th graders responded that they felt close to people at the school.  80.6% of students also responded that they felt like they were a part of their school.  82.3% of students felt happy to be at their school.  For 2018-2019, over 55% of all students talked with their counselor on topics ranging from issues with friends, family or peers to issues with homework, discipline or feelings of grief/sadness.  This is an increase from 50% in 2017-2018.  Although the majority of students feel safe at school, 36% of 4-8th grade students worry about being bullied at school which is an increase from 25% last year.  Overall, schools are providing a safe environment and create opportunities for students to speak with a counselor to provide support to students who need to speak to someone beyond their friends, family and teachers.  Student connectedness can continue to improve through relationship-building between students and between students and staff.  The elementary school sites have begun implementing Tier 1 behavior supports school-wide this year and will begin developing and providing Tier 2 behavior supports this winter using the Positive Behavior Interventions and Support (PBIS) framework.  These behavioral response to intervention (RTI) supports will help to establish and reinforce positive behaviors on campus, develop strong relationships among students and staff and provide targeted behavioral supports to students.  The middle school will continue its PBIS implementation to reach these same goals.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
16639820000000|Lemoore Union High|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey in conducted every other year at LUHSD.  Student surveys at each individual site for different school requirements, such as WASC accreditation, LCAP or by the Student Services Department.  The other student surveys share similar results as the California Healthy Kids Survey.   Many of the current societal issues, such as bullying, access to social/emotional counseling, and school safety remain as important issues to all students. In looking at the summary of key indicators, the results show some positive numbers, as well as, some key areas to focus on. In looking at School Engagement and Supports, 9th grade results are School connectedness (high) 70%, Academic motivation (high) 59%, Truant more than a few times 13%, Caring adult relationships 64%, High expectations (high) 83%, Meaningful participation (high) 32%. The 11th grade results are School connectedness (high) 60%, Academic motivation (high) 38%, Truant more than a few times 5%, Caring adult relationships (high) 60%, High expectations (high) 60%, Meaningful participation (high) 26%. Results from School Safety and Substance Use are as follows: 9th grade are School perceived as very safe or safe 57%, Experienced any harassment or bullying 35%, Had mean rumors or lies spread about you 35%, Been afraid of being beaten up 23%, Been in a physical fight 11%, Seen a weapon on campus 18%, and Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 7%. 11th grade results are School perceived as very safe or safe 56%, Experienced any harassment or bullying 30%, Had mean rumors or lies spread about you 24%, Been afraid of being beaten up 14%, Been in a physical fight 13%, Seen a weapon on campus 20%, and Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 16%. The section on Mental and Physical Health yielded the following results. 9th grade results are Current alcohol or drug use 19%, Current binge drinking 7%, Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times 6%, Current cigarette smoking 5%, Current electronic cigarette use 9%, Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 31%, and Considered suicide 19%. The 11th grade results are Current alcohol or drug use 26%, Current binge drinking 13%, Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times 11%, Current cigarette smoking 9%, Current electronic cigarette use 10%, Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 27%, and Considered suicide 18%. When analyzing the results of the California Healthy Kids Survey, the three goals outlined in the LCAP continue to be areas of focus. The development of the Student Services department in the 2018-2019 school year is a vital element to the district implementation of Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports and Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports.   The district will continue to implement, evaluate and adjust the MTSS / PBIS system of interventions to assist in removing impediments to student learning.|2019-10-10|One area of focus is to continue to implement and adjust social and emotional supports for all students.  Suspension data suggests that reducing impediments for students is essential to keep students in class and continually progressing academically.|Met|2019
16639740100156|Lemoore University Elementary Charter|6|Students in grades 6-8 were asked to complete a pupil survey. 83% of these students responded that they usually or always felt safe at school. When students have a problem at school, they typically have someone they can talk to about it: a teacher - 3%, counselor - 20%, administrator - 3%, another student 33% or someone else - 40%. Counseling services are relatively new at the schools, but 77% of our students have reported feeling good or safe knowing a counselor is available to them.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647090000000|Lennox|6|Lennox School District administers an annual school climate survey to all students in 5th and 7th grades. The survey administered in February 2019 yielded the following findings:  -75% of students reported that they feel that their school is safe  -80% of students reported that they feel teachers make time to discuss grades and academic concerns   -86% of students reported that they feel teachers help to make the learning understandable by using different ways of presenting information  While these reflect an average to high level of positive attitudes among students, they also reflect an increased attention to social emotional learning including Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS). Our district is in the beginning stages of implementing a comprehensive system of supports to support academics, behavior and social emotional skills for staff, students and families.   Lennox School District continues to prioritize ensuring the safety and connectedness of all students. District wide, all school sites are implementing the Olweus Anti -Bullying Prevention program. Additionally, the district offers a full-time counselor at all schools, mentoring programs, and growth mindset strategies.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647090100602|Lennox Mathematics, Science and Technology Academy|6|Lennox Academy continuously strives to promote a positive, supportive and engaging environment, conducive to learning by upholding its school motto/pillars of Familia, Ganas y Orgullo – Family, Desire and Pride. Overall, 91% of students reported to feel a positive connection to the school, as indicated by having a positive peer/adult relationship on campus, feeling happy at school, and/or a sense of belonging. Additionally, 85% of students reported to feel safe at Lennox Academy. 100% of staff agrees/strongly agrees that Lennox Academy is a safe place for students and a safe place to work. Furthermore, 99% of parents who participated also agreed that Lennox Academy is a safe school for their child to attend, that it provides opportunities for meaningful participation (95%), and has a supportive learning environment (98%).  Although the majority of students reported feeling safe at school all the time, some students (7.2%) identified after-school as a time when they feel unsafe at school. Lennox Academy will continue to explore the need to increase supervision support after-school along with an after-school program that provides students a positive space to “hang-out,” collaborate and socialize with peers, do homework, etc., while they wait for their parents to pick them up and/or it is time to go home.    Although the percentage of students reporting to have experienced bullying on campus is relatively low in comparison to other schools, Lennox Academy hopes to increase school connectedness by fostering positive peer relationships and acceptance among the student body. Plans include conducting activities that focus on bringing more awareness and call to action against bullying, such as participating in the National Bullying Prevention Month and Stomp Out Bullying Week, strengthening the Buddy Program on campus, and conducting assemblies on acceptance.   Lennox Academy is working on activities to help increase school connectedness, including but not limited to  student grade level experiences, enhancing the existing buddy program on campus, creating a mentoring program, as well as initiating a NAMI on Campus High School Program and multiple activities and assemblies that focus on building our familia on campus and increasing school connections and support.   Lennox Academy recognizes that increased drug use, particularly vaping,  has been a challenge among teenagers. Lennox Academy plans to educate students on the effects of drug use by conducting school-wide assemblies that focus on bringing more awareness on drug abuse and prevention, as well as participate in Red Ribbon Week, and others to help deter drug activity on campus.|2019-10-10|Teachers have established individual classroom management plans in accordance with Character Counts philosophies and use the HERO system to track students’ progress. Concentrations are placed in redirecting behavior, allowing students to take responsibility for their actions and demonstrate self-control through good decision-making practices.|Met|2019
37680230119594|Leonardo da Vinci Health Sciences Charter|6|LdVCS stakeholders shared that their favorite events on campus that feel inviting, organized, and relevant to the community. The most popular events were Olympic Day and Back To School Night. Both of these community events bring opportunity to network, reconnect with families, and gather the larger school community around student activities. Respondents indicated certain supplemental programs offered good support for their student outside of school. Imagine Learning Mathematics and Language Arts resources were among the top of the programs cited by stakeholder responses. Stakeholders also requested more information regarding mathematics instruction at LdVCS. Many stakeholders requested changes to the following academic areas, math and science. Areas of strength listed was the overall school climate as positive. 80.3 % of students surveys consider their school to be a safe place. As a result of the survey results, LdVCS staff created a Math Action Plan to address curricular gaps, increased communication with parents regarding homework and classroom assignments, sharing summative data with both students and parents to help them keep track of student progress, and more professional development related to math instruction.|2019-10-08|Parents and students indicated a feeling of safety on campus and LdVCS has seen a 12.5 % decrease in suspensions as a result of the positive, caring, and nurturing atmosphere the staff creates for student learning on a daily basis. An emphasis will be placed on student behavior, with a specific development of a code of student conduct that embodies high expectations for all students. Any student disciplinary issues will be addressed at early stages to avoid unnecessary suspensions or expulsions. This Pupil Suspension and Expulsion Policy has been established in order to promote learning and protect the safety and well-being of all students at Leonardo da Vinci Health Sciences Charter School. When the policy is violated, it may be necessary to suspend or expel a student from regular classroom instruction. This policy shall serve as Leonardo da Vinci Health Sciences Charter School's policy and procedures for student suspension and expulsion and it may be amended from time to time without the need to amend the charter so long as the amendments comport with legal requirements. Leonardo da Vinci Health Sciences Charter School staff shall enforce disciplinary rules and procedures fairly and consistently among all students. This Policy and its Procedures will be printed and distributed as part of the Student Handbook and will clearly describe discipline expectations.|Met|2019
34752830126060|Leroy Greene Academy|6|In the Natomas Unified School District School Climate and Culture Student Survey, our site has shown growth in the areas of Climate of Support for Academic Areas; Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules & Norms; Safety; Safety, Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness); Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). Our areas of growth are surrounding teachers working with and for their students, students knowing expectations, and feeling a sense of belonging and connectedness with other students. While our survey results were overwhelmingly positive, if we had to identify an area for growth it would around the area of campus behavior such as bullying and interpersonal relationships. Due to this, we are launching an anti-bullying campaign that will continue throughout the immediate future. We launched restorative practices with phase one of community circles, and we will continue to enrich and train our staff on these practices. We have begun implementing restorative conversations as well. We also have trained a small contingent of our staff surrounding PBIS strategies, and are preparing for an initial rollout of PBIS. We have brought in outside organizations, such as Learning for Living with Breaking down the Walls, and are using cyberbullying lessons within our Advisory class. The goal of all of these systems is to reduce bullying and gossip and sexual harassment or jokes on our campus. Administration is also aligning our progressive discipline model with our tiered interventions in such a way as to ensure students understand our campus is a bully free zone.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
53717460000000|Lewiston Elementary|6|We administered the Healthy Kids Survey to all our 7th graders.  Due to low enrollment numbers in this grade, we are not able to publicly share the results.  As a staff, we analyze the data results for trends which guides our focus on improving all aspects of our school's climate.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330131904|Libertas College Preparatory Charter|6|DATA: Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned. 234 out of 280 students responded to the School Climate Survey (approximately 84% of the student body). 54% of these students identified as male, 42% as female, 1% as non-binary, and 3% preferring not to answer.  Survey results revealed that 64% of students say that they LIKE school while 79% of students believed they were DOING WELL academically in school. Key school culture learnings were that over 90% of students believed that the school has clear rules for behavior, 86% of students believed that their teachers treat them with respect, 77% of students believe that good behavior is noticed at school, 92% of students believe that there is an adult at the school who will help them if they need it, and 94% of students believe that their teachers WANT them to do well. Questions that targeted student perceptions of peers and school safety revealed that 86% of students get along with their peers, 81% of students feel safe at school, and 74% of students feel that students treat each other well at school, however 65% of students feel that their peers behave so that teachers can teach in class. MEANING: What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers?  Areas of Strength include: Student beliefs that teachers care for them and want the best for them. In addition, a majority of students feel safe at school and get along with their peers. Areas of Growth include:only 64% of students have a positive attitude toward school and two-thirds of students feel that their peers' behavior is not conducive to learning. USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking? Based on the survey data, we are making concentrated efforts to build trust with our students and will leverage student-teacher relationships to develop a more positive attitude toward school and to leverage those relationships to improve classroom culture.  We will continue to analyze the survey results for trends across specific grade levels and race/ethnicity lines in order to support teachers at that grade level to better serve their students.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
49707970000000|Liberty Elementary|6|The LEA annually administers multiple surveys to stakeholders to gauge student, staff and family engagement, academic performance, and school safety.  The results of these surveys are shared broadly within the community, including: the Board, parents, and staff.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
49707976051833|Liberty Elementary|6|The LEA annually administers multiple surveys to stakeholders to gauge student, staff and family engagement, academic performance, and school safety.  The results of these surveys are shared broadly within the community, including: the Board, parents, and staff.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
54719850000000|Liberty Elementary|6|*Combined results from 2018-2019 CHKS Grades 5 and 7 show that: • 73% of our students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school  • 87% report a high level of academic motivation • 75% report feeling they have adults at school that care about them • 89% report there is a culture of high expectations at school • 41% report feeling they have opportunities for meaningful participation at school (doing things that make a difference, participating in interesting activities, or decide class activities or rules) • 74% perceive the school as safe or very safe • 26%  of our students responded that they had experienced harassment or bullying in the past year *Results taken from the district’s “CHKS Main Report” as reported in A. Contents 2. Summary of Key Indicators page 2. Student Group reporting-Student group graphs were presented to the board. Our district’s focus is to ensure students feel safe and connected at school.  We will compare these results to future results and revisit our programs and continue surveying staff and students for ideas as to how to continue to increase their engagement with school and finding ways to increase students’ feelings of safety.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
07617210000000|Liberty Union High|6|Liberty Union High School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 9 and 11. The CalSCHLS.org website, developed by WestEd for the California Department of Education, maintains the data for all schools that administer the California Healthy Kids Survey. This website has a Data Dashboard, which disaggregates results by student groups. It also displays 3-year trends. This Data Dashboard is the source of the disaggregated data analyzed for this report.  DATA - Key learning from the survey include: 1) Most students (9th grade = 60%, 11th grade = 56%) perceive their schools as safe or very safe. These results have been consistent from 2014-2019.  2) Most students report being connected to their school (9th grade = 57%, 11th grade = 52%). These results have been consistent from 2014-2019.  MEANING: Disaggregated data yielded the following findings: 1) When disaggregated by student groups, nearly all ethnic groups were within ±3% of the total school average, with the exception of Asians, who reported higher levels of safety (9th grade = 65%, 11th grade = 61%). The group with the lowest perception of school safety were English Learners (9th grade = 48%, 11th grade = 41%).  2) African American students report a lower sense of connectedness to school (9th grade = 46%, 11th grade = 45%) than all students (57% and 52%, respectively). Freshmen English Learners report lower student connectedness (9th grade = 50%).  USE: LUHSD has taken several steps to increase student safety, including School Resource Officers on every comprehensive campus, additional perimeter fencing, and security camera on all sites. Anti-bullying campaigns, plus guest speakers for students are designed to help students feel emotionally safe on campus. 9th grade orientation programs on each site, a wide variety of clubs and activities, and award and recognition programs on every campus have fostered student connectedness. Campus climate student groups are found on every campus, where students work with administrators in a proactive manner to problem solve issues as they arise.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
38684783830429|Life Learning Academy Charter|6|On an annual basis, a third-party evaluation team at Learning for Action (LFA) conducts analyses of a range of data sources to assess the extent to which students attending the Life Learning Academy Charter School (LLA) are achieving desired outcomes in the arenas of social-emotional learning, academic achievement, and juvenile justice system involvement. This analysis includes an annual local climate survey.  LLA students continue to make remarkable strides in their development, both personally and academically, since enrolling in the school. Students’ Grade Point Averages (GPAs) and attendance records consistently improve when compared to their records prior to entering the school. In addition, LLA students are completing nearly all of the credits that are required of SFUSD students (83% credit completion rate) and the graduation rate for the 2017-2018 school year was 92%. Students who never thought they would graduate complete high school and then continue on to productive employment, post-secondary education, or both. True to our name, Life Learning Academy educates the whole child: students at LLA not only learn academics, but also learn about themselves, their communities, and the larger world around them. They grow in their beliefs about what they are capable of and what the possibilities are for their futures. They stay out of involvement in the juvenile justice system and remain productively engaged in their learning and development. LLA also has long prioritized dissemination and knowledge sharing of our model, so that other organizations may learn from our experience and replicate our work. As a result, the project-based model that LLA drives forward is gaining significant traction and recognition in the field. The numerous site visits that the school receives and positive academic achievements of its students are strong indicators that LLA is creating positive impact for high-risk students and supporting successful engagement in learning.|2019-05-28||Met|2019
19646670123174|Life Source International Charter|6|Local educational agency administers a local climate survey at least every other year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and contentedness, such as the School Climate Survey, to students in at least one grade within the grade span(s) that the local educational agency serves (e.g., K-5, 6-8), and reports the results to its local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting of the local governing board and to stakeholders and the public through the evaluation rubrics.      ***We were able to secure both qualitative and quantitative data from over 500 stakeholders throughout the district based on survey responses, and family nights. Input sessions were provided from November 2018 – May 2019. Survey results were provided in a board meeting taking place on May 28th of 2019 (2018-19 SY)|2019-05-28||Met|2019
19734370115725|Lifeline Education Charter|6|Students at Lifeline Education Charter School complete student survey’s annually.  Students report on school culture, climate, classroom environment, and teacher and staff engagement. More than 90% of students reported feeling safe at school. 95% felt the school's regularly scheduled safety drills throughout the year account for their safety because they know proper procedures and how to evacuate.  Over 85% feel that their parents are involved and knowledgeable about grades and school news through our current Student Information System(SIS). Elementary students report Class Dojo is often used to share information with their parents to help find homework and other highlights from class. Data Reports are shared with Lifeline Staff and is used in preparing In-Service workshops for new and returning teachers as well as Professional Development workshops.  Based on the survey, we will continue to offer workshops and support to not only students but parents. As noted, only about 85% of students are aware of their parents using the SIS system. This may be a result of a brand new Student Information System(SIS) which was implemented this school year. It is important to offer assistance to not only the students but to the parents so that they are kept informed of all student progress and needs.|2019-08-17||Met|2019
01612590130633|Lighthouse Community Charter|6|In grades 3-8, we administer portions of the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI) each spring. Specifically, we look at the portions related to Student Interactions and Attitude and Culture to assess student connectedness to school and school safety. During the 2018-19 school year, more than 95% of students (345 students) in 3rd-8th grades completed the survey. Overall, 66% of responses to student culture questions were rated positively. Key learnings include that, while students feel they can trust and talk to adults at the school (89% positive in 3-5, 80% positive in 6-8), students do not feel as though there are consistently positive interactions between different student groups (44% in 3-5 and 48% positive in 6-8). A strength is that there was no gap in school culture scores for English Learners and Students with Disabilities. Questions related to student leadership were also among the lowest in this domain. In response to these survey results, Lighthouse has taken several steps to support positive interactions between different student groups and student leadership. In the middle school, a staff member has been hired to specifically work on culture-building, including weekly community meetings and a student leadership group. In addition, daily crew time includes a Socio-Emotional curriculum component. Weekly “Fabulous Friday”s at the elementary school support student feelings of community, as well as the implementation of a Socio-Emotional Learning curriculum within the classroom setting.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
01612590108944|Lighthouse Community Charter High|6|At Lighthouse Community Charter High School, we administer portions of the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI) each spring. Specifically, we look at the portions related to Student Interactions and Attitude and Culture to assess student connectedness to school and school safety. During the 2018-19 school year, 57% of students (166 students) in 9th-12th grades completed the survey. Overall, 36% of responses to student culture questions were rated positively, and 44% were neutral, for a total of 80%. Strengths were around student safety, with 49% positive and 38% neutral responses, and teacher high expectations for students, with 44% positive and 44% neutral responses. Areas for growth were around school belonging, where only 27% of responses were positive, 53% neutral, and 20% negative; student leadership, with 24% positive responses, 52% neutral, and 24% negative. In response to this data, the high school has focused this fall on student culture building, implementing events to build student spirit and sense of community across the school, and building an extended day program that includes student interest clubs and other opportunities for students to demonstrate leadership and cultivate belonging.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
10622406006704|Lincoln Elementary|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14|School Climate and Culture is assessed using the annual district parent survey. Ninety-eight percent of Lincoln's parents responded to the survey. Eighty-four percent of those parents responded "above average and excellent" when asked questions about Lincoln School's positive culture and if students felt safe attending Lincoln School.|Met|2019
21653750000000|Lincoln Elementary|6|Due to the relative size of the district, a survey approach is not the most effective means of determining school climate. The small size of our school allows us to maintain a close pulse on the climate of the students and school climate.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
52105206119606|Lincoln Street|6|DATA-2018-2019 :       ~End of year parent and student surveys indicated that Lincoln Street School is a safe, welcoming place where everyone is treated with respect.      ~A parent focus group indicated a need for more teaching support for families.      ~Family Success Liaison provided resources to 19 families.  MEANING:  Lincoln Street School continues to have a dedicated staff, a welcoming environment, and strong communication with families.  Parents indicated that they would like more tips for teaching at home and more flexibility in the curriculum.  USE:  Staff will offer more targeted instruction and training to parents on curriculum and will focus on alternative learning opportunities to better support the diverse population and the changing demographics of the school.   Family Success Liaison will continue to research and offer community resources to families.|2019-11-06|Lincoln Street School is an independent study charter school based on the home-school model.  Due to our setting, parents and students are only on-site a small percentage of their school year.  The majority of their time on site is in one-on-one meetings with their supervising teacher.  Students are also invited to attend enrichment opportunities throughout the school year.  During these gatherings, they meet as a small group under the constant supervision of a dedicated teacher to ensure that a safe and positive environment is present.|Met|2019
39685690000000|Lincoln Unified|6|Lincoln Unified School District (LUSD) administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2018. Results serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate.   In the area of School Engagement and Supports results showed the following:  Grade 5 - School Connectedness 51% /69%; Academic Motivation 67%/56%; Caring Adult Relationships 59%/65%; Meaningful Participation 19%/17%.  Grade 7 – School Connectedness 28%/57%; Academic Motivation 32%/41%; Caring Adult Relationships 33%/38%; Meaningful Participation 15%/12%.  Grade 9 - School Connectedness 15%/44%; Academic Motivation 30%/31%; Caring Adult Relationships 22%/24%; Meaningful Participation 7%/4%.  Grade 11 - School Connectedness 14%/41%; Academic Motivation 24%/28%; Caring Adult Relationships 28%/32%; Meaningful Participation 8%/6%.  The first number shows the average percentage of students responding “yes all the time” or at the secondary level “strongly agree” or “very much true”. The second number shows the percentage of students who gave responses which indicate high school connectedness, academic motivation, caring adult relationships and meaningful participation.  In the area of School Safety the results show the following:  Grade 5 – Feel Safe/Perceive School as Safe 88%  Grade 7 - Feel Safe/Perceive School as Safe 59%; Experienced Harassment/Bullying 39%  Grade 9 - Feel Safe/Perceive School as Safe 60%; Experienced Harassment/Bullying 38%  Grade 11 - Feel Safe/Perceive School as Safe 55%; Experienced Harassment/Bullying 33%  The measure of harassment/ bullying is the percentage of students who have experienced this within the last 30 days.  There are differences in how students perceive school connectedness as they move from the elementary grades to the middle and high school grades. Fifth graders report higher School Connectedness, Academic Motivation, Caring Adult Relationships and Meaningful Participation than do students in Grades 7, 9, and 11. The percentages indicate a decrease in the perception of students for all grades in these areas from past surveys. Students in fifth grade reported feeling safe in school in higher percentages that students in Grade 7, 9 and 11. The percentage of students in Grades 7, 9 and 11 reporting that they had experienced harassment or bullying in the past 30 days remained unchanged from the previous survey.  School Climate is an area identified by the District for focus and improvement.  To this end it was determined that the administration of the CHKS every other year did not give the District and schools timely information.  So in addition to the CHKS, the District will be administering an additional climate survey to students, staff and parents in the Fall of 2019.  The information from both surveys will inform the development of the District LCAP.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
39685770000000|Linden Unified|6|LUSD administered the CHKS in 2017-18 school year at the 7th and 9th grades.  The following are the student results:   7th grade:  CHKS Participation Rate was 94%, "school connectedness" 36%, "caring adult at school" 37%, "feel part of the school" 16%, "school safety" 80%.     9th grade: CHKS Participation Rate was 87%, "school connectedness" 20%, "caring adult at school" 30%, "feel part of the school" 8%, "school safety" 67%.  For the 2018-2019 school year, there was not a LCAP survey distributed for additional data. Since the CHKS surveys are anonymous, other data will be reviewed to look for trends among disaggregated groups.  Focus will be on a distributing a LCAP survey for staff and students for the 2019-2020 school year.  Also, the CHKS will be administered to 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grades this school year.  All of this data will be evaluated to identify strengths, areas of growth, challenges, and barriers for school climate.|2019-10-16|n/a|Met|2019
54719930000000|Lindsay Unified|6|According to the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), for learners in grades 5 through 12, Lindsay learners generally feel safe at school.   Learners were asked to indicate how strongly they agree with the statement of “ I feel safe in my school.” 86% of grades 5 and 6 learners agreed or strongly agreed, 85% of grades 6 through 8 learners agreed or strongly agreed and 90% of grades 9 through 12 learners agreed or strongly agreed.   Other questions related to safety and connectedness revealed a positive response including grades 9-12 learners at Lindsay High School (LHS) with a school climate index score of 469/500 on the overall low violence and substance use indicator and a 315/500 index score on school connectedness.  Both climate index scores indicate improvement. Overall,  LHS received a school climate index (SCI) score of 408/500 for all indicators combined and was ranked at the 96th percentile in the state of California.  The trend of positive responses continued with learners in 5th -8th grades. When answering prompts such as: “I feel close to people at school,” 84% of learners at the 5th and 6th-grade responded positively indicating that they felt very connected to peers and adults.  83% responded positively when asked if they are happy to be at their school. Within 7th and 8th grade, 89% of learners felt connected to adults and peers and 84% were happy to be at their school.   Although the district excelled in learners feeling supported, connected and safe in school an area of opportunity was identified: experiencing engaging, meaningful learning opportunities.  Only 58% of learners felt they were engaged in meaningful participation at school when responding to the prompt of, “I do interesting activities” and “I do things that make a difference.” These responses reinforce the district’s push to increase authentic and meaningful learning opportunities through project-based learning in the 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
15635860000000|Linns Valley-Poso Flat Union|6|Overall Linns Valley feels the school climate is positive. *Results from the 2019 LCAP Survey given to students, parents, staff and community members: • 100% feel a sense of safety • 88% feel a sense of connectedness • 100% feel a sense of increase in student achievement  Our district’s focus is to ensure students feel safe and connected at school.  We will be revisiting our programs and surveying students, parents, staff and community members for ideas on how to increase their engagement with school and finding ways to increase feelings of connectedness.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
44697996049720|Linscott Charter|6|Key findings show that a high percentage of students believe their school fosters a culture of fairness and respect. Staff rate schools as highly engaging, but parents somewhat less so. Students indicated that they were expected to work hard at school but felt that Engagement at School was an area that could use some attention. Parents felt that communication and feedback was good but could always be improved.|2019-03-12||Met|2019
37103716119119|Literacy First Charter|6|At Literacy First Charter Schools we are wholly committed to our mission, vision and values and view everything we do through that lens. Our high level of accountability,  intentionally trained teachers, parents who are connected in our community and students who are protected both emotionally and physically are evidence of our commitment. LFCS is a place where students thrive because parents care and character counts.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19647170000000|Little Lake City Elementary|6|Our district administers Healthy Kids Surveys to our 5th and 7th grade students. The data collected indicate how safe students feel at school and how connected they feel to their school.  Students were asked the following questions:  Student Safety Questions: 1.  Do you feel safe at school? 2.  Do you feel safe on your way home from school?  Percentage of students that feel safe: 5th grade - 94% 7th grade - 85%  School Connectedness Questions: 1.  Do you feel close to the people at school? 2.  Are you happy to be at school? 3.  Do you feel that you are a part of the school? 4.  Do teachers treat students fairly at school? 5.  Are you given a chance to help decide things at school, like class rules? 6.  Do teachers and other grown-ups care about you? 7.  Do the teachers and other grown-ups at school tell you when you do a good job? 8.  Do teachers and other grown-ups at school ask about your ideas? 9.  Do you feel proud to belong to your school? 10.  Do the teachers and other adults give you a chance to solve school problems? 11.  Do you get to do interesting activities at school? 12.  Do your teachers ask you what you want to learn about? 13.  Do the teachers and other grown-ups at school listen when you have something to say? 14.  Do the teachers and other grown-ups at school believe that you can do a good job? 15.  Do you do things to be helpful at school?  Percentage of students that feel connectedness: 5th grade - 89% 7th  grade - 77%  The LEA has recognized that overall, there is a high percentage of students (94% of fifth grade students, 85% of seventh grade students) who do feel safe at school.  While that number speaks to the systems and procedures in place to ensure student safety, there are still a small percentage of students who do not feel safe at school.  In addition, we do have a high percentage of students (89% of fifth grade students, 77% of seventh grade students) who feel that they are connected to their school and campus.  These numbers acknowledge the District’s focus on relationship building in addition to the practices we have put in place to build students’ feelings of school connectedness.  While data is fairly consistent across schools, it does indicate that there is a difference between our elementary and middle school students and that we must do a better job at the middle school level in the areas of safety and connectedness.  Until we meet 100%, we must continue to put systems in place so that every student feels safe and feels a connection to their school.  We will continue to use this survey and the comments by students to help us explore additional avenues to be able to connect with every student.  All comments will be reviewed by administrators and counselors to help identify specific students, or groups of students that need additional support.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
47703830000000|Little Shasta Elementary|6|Little Shasta is a two room schoolhouse with enrollment this year of 25 students. In our multi-graded classroom environments, students feel incredibly supported by teacher, staff and peers. We administer a survey to both students and parents every year at every grade level. Our results tend to be very positive. These results are reported to the board annually. Key learning includes the overwhelming appreciation of curriculum, teaching, programs and services. We continue to seek improvement ideas from parents and implement strategies as needed.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
49402466119036|Live Oak Charter|6|1. DATA: Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned.  Students reported general satisfaction with their core academic instruction. Due to a reorganization to the middle school program, many responses reflected these changes. The reorganization in structure was met with increased satisfaction by a gross majority of the student population > 90%. Students noted increased awareness of bullying, but also of increased awareness in pathways to address social concerns. Students again reported low at risk factors include presence of controlled substances, violence or cyberbullying.  2. MEANING: What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers?  The reorganization of the middle school program was a significant departure for the school in its 18 year history. Student response appears strongly favorable, and was matched by similar results in the parent survey. The goals of the program change were intended to provide greater subject area expertise in instruction as well as smaller class sizes for core academic subjects, thus increasing instructional responsiveness. These objectives appear to have been received well by the student population.  The report of increased bullying awareness, as well as an increase in skillset associated may have been related to the Challenge Day activity that we conducted several weeks in advance of the survey. This may have skewed results given the course content from the event. Nonetheless, the increase awareness in bullying should be noted as a strong indicator that bullying is occurring on campus and impacting the students. The commiserate reporting of an increase in skills regarding conflicts and bullying appear more directly related the special program in the spring.  3. USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking?  Live Oak will continue into year 2 of its revised middle school model. Given the feedback on year 1, particular as it related to electives, the elective rotation will see significant changes while maintaining the multi-grade feature of this component. Regarding bullying, which was the primary high risk behavior reported, the school is implementing a restorative practices model in all grades K-8 including training for students in restorative conferences. Circles will be held at least weekly in classes and a new protocol will be put in place to address concerns as they arise.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
44697650000000|Live Oak Elementary|6|The Live Oak School District has historically administered the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year in grades 5 & 7. The survey was last administered in 2019.   Key district-level findings from the 2019 survey include the following strengths: the majority of students feel happy and safe while at school; they report high levels of academic motivation and high parent expectations; and alcohol, drug, and tobacco use is minimal.  Areas for improvement include: increasing students’ sense of meaningful participation at school; education around the harmful impacts of e-cigarettes; decreasing rates of sadness across gender and ethnicity groups.   Principals were given their school-level report, school report card (as available) and COE-provided worksheet to guide their review of the school’s results and determine an area of focus for the 2019-20 school year (see below). Each site has submitted an action plan with specific steps to address their area of focus.  Del Mar Elementary: Increase % of Students Reporting High Levels of “School Connectedness” Green Acres Elementary: Increase % of Students Reporting High Levels of “Meaningful Participation” at School Live Oak Elementary: Reduce % of Students Reporting Being the Subject of Mean Rumors and Being Called Bad Names Shoreline Middle: Reduce % of Students Reporting Use of e-cigarettes and Increase % of Students Perceiving Harm of e-cigarettes  Finally, it was determined during our LCAP planning process that the District would begin administering the survey in grades 5 & 7 every year beginning in 2019-20.   Full District and School-level reports of the California Healthy Kids Survey may be found here:  https://www.losd.ca/apps/pages/index.jsp?uREC_ID=1548372&type=d&pREC_ID=1674488|2019-10-02||Met|2019
51713990000000|Live Oak Unified|6|The classrooms at my school are clean and well maintained. Luther  97% LOMS  95%   Encinal  98%  LOHS   89%  VOHS  100%     I feel safe at my school. Luther  97%   LOMS  90%  Encinal  92%   LOHS   88%   VOHS  87%   Incidences of bullying are noticed and dealt with in my school. Luther  89%  LOMS  80%   Encinal  74%   LOHS   75%   VOHS  81%    I look forward to coming to school. Luther  96%   LOMS  84%   Encinal  83%   LOHS   70%  VOHS  81%     I try hard in school. Luther  99%   LOMS  99%   Encinal  97%  LOHS   94%  VOHS  97%     Adults at my school care about me. Luther  96%   LOMS  90%   Encinal  97%   LOHS   88%   VOHS  100%    I feel that the rules are communicated to me. Luther  97%   LOMS  98%   Encinal  93%   LOHS   91%   VOHS  94%    Discipline for breaking rules is consistent. Luther  94%   LOMS  87%   Encinal  72%   LOHS   86%   VOHS  100%    I feel that I am respected by teachers and staff. Luther  94%   LOMS  92%   Encinal  92%  LOHS   88%  VOHS  100%   A counselor is available to help me with my problems Luther  96%   LOMS  93%  Encinal  95%  LOHS   93%   VOHS  100%   School climate survey results show that students feel safe, cared about, and engaged.  Results support our continued efforts to make students feel welcome, safe, cared about, and engaged in school with goals and purpose.  An area we continue to address is bullying, by educating students, correcting behaviors, and supporting students who feel bullied.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
01612000000000|Livermore Valley Joint Unified|6|Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District maintains a positive school climate and learning environment.  The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered to students in grades five, seven, nine, and eleven. Participation in the survey is anonymous and optional.  Percentage of students reporting feeling moderately to highly connected to school: 5th Grade - 96%, 7th Grade - 90%, 9th Grade - 92%, 11th Grade - 89% Percentage of students experiencing caring adult relationships at school: 5th Grade - 97%, 7th Grade - 87%, 9th Grade - 85%, 11th Grade - 88% Percentage of students reporting that they feel safe most or all of the time they are at school: 5th Grade - 84%, 7th Grade - 63%, 9th Grade - 60%, 11th Grade - 61% The results show that our students generally feel safe, connected, and supported in our schools. Results of the California Healthy Kids Survey are reported to the Board of Trustees. LVJUSD continues to strengthen the learning environment by providing Positive Behavior Intervention Supports and social emotional learning through the Choose Love curriculum for students, and ongoing training for staff. In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey, we use local School Wide Information System (SWIS) data and results from our Panorama Social Emotional Learning Survey to be responsive to student needs.|2019-10-15|The Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District has established the LVJUSD Framework for Success. Our Framework prioritizes academic, behavioral, and social emotional learning for all students. To support positive school climate, all schools are participating in Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) implementation. Our District has also adopted Choose Love as our social emotional learning curriculum and it is being implemented at all of our schools. In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey, we use local School Wide Information System (SWIS) data and results from our Panorama Social Emotional Learning Survey to be responsive to student needs. We have also created a mental health page on our website to support families.|Met|2019
24657480000000|Livingston Union|6|LUSD provides a local Student Climate Survey to all students in grades 3-8. The data is evaluated at site and district levels and is used to improve school climate with a focus on school safety and student connectedness. Data points include *School Safety and Connectedness* Adult Support and Expectations* Student Beliefs. Data results are reported through the LCAP Annual Update and shared with stakeholders via advisory meetings and regularly scheduled meetings of the local governing board.  LUSD has 3 nationally ranked counseling programs.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647336017891|Lockhurst Drive Charter Elementary|6|Lockhurst Drive Charter Elementary administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey. The following are the results that pertain to school climate: * School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 96%  This is an increase of 27% increase from the previous year. * Lockhurst was perceived to be safe place by at least 91% of students.   * When students were asked if adults treated them with respect 88% of students replied in the affirmative.   * 92% of students reported being happy when coming school.  * 91% of students reported feeling like they are part of the school.  The following data above show that Lockhurst is safe, nurturing, and respectful environment where students come to school eager to learn.  Students know that they our part of our community where learning and over all wellness is the main focus.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
01612590134015|Lodestar: A Lighthouse Community Charter Public|6|In grades 3-8, we administer portions of the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI) each spring as a measure of school climate. Specifically, we look at the portions related to Student Interactions and Attitude and Culture to assess student connectedness to school and school safety. During the 2018-19 school year, 80% of students (264 students) in 3rd-8th grades completed the survey. Overall, 42% of responses to student culture questions at 6-8 were rated positively and 37% were neutral; in K-5, 48% of responses were positive and 38% were neutral.    A key strength was that students feel they can trust and talk to most of the adults, with 97% at K-5 and 76% at 6-8 feeling they have at least some adults they trust at Lodestar. Additionally 57% of K-5 students and 51% of 6-8 students feel safe everywhere at school, with an additional 21% of K-5 and 31% of 6-8 feeling safe most of the time.    One area of growth is around the use of mean language, where only 33% of students feel that other students will point out that it’s not right, and 51% feeling that students using mean language sometimes getting in trouble with an adult. The corresponding numbers for 6-8 are 30% positive and 21% negative. This relates to a question related to positive student interactions across difference, where 37% of students responded positively in K-5 and 32% in 6-8. In response to these areas for growth, we are putting more emphasis in 2019-20 into our Crew curriculum, ensuring that students have the opportunity to build positive relationships with each other, with specific attention to developing relationships across difference.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
39685850000000|Lodi Unified|6|The 2018-19 Lodi Unified School District School Climate Survey was taken by 15,698 students, representing 48 school sites in grades 4-12 with an approximately equal distribution across all grade levels. The survey was comprised of 44 questions on a four-point agreement scale (Strongly Agree, Agree, Disagree, and Strongly Disagree). The survey was designed to address the National School Climate Center’s characteristics of a positive school climate as follows:  Norms, values, and expectations that support people feeling socially, emotionally, physically safe. • People are engaged and respected. • Students, families, and educators work together to develop and contribute to a shared school vision. • Educators model and nurture attitudes that emphasize the benefits and satisfaction gained from learning. • Each person contributes to the operations of the school and care of the physical environment. School Safety: 79% of the students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school. This is supported to some extent by questions addressing students’ perceptions of their peers. For example, 73% of the students disagree or strongly disagree that they are often bullied. However, a lower percentage disagree or strongly disagree (57%) that students threaten to hurt each other, and steal, damage or destroy other students’ property. 55% of the students disagree or strongly disagree that they fight a lot. School Connectedness: 83% of the students agree or strongly agree that they feel what they are learning is important to them, and 85% agree or strongly agree that there are opportunities to become involved in activities outside of class. 80% agree or strongly agree that they feel socially accepted at school. These data are supported to some extent by how students regard the adults at their schools. 85% of the students agree or strongly agree that their teachers care about them, and 74% agree or strongly agree that their teachers treat them respectfully. 75% of the students agree or strongly agree that, administrators discipline students of different ethnicities fairly.  In today's environment of constant news along with social media, it is difficult to reassure staff and students of their safety. While almost 80% of students feel safe at school, there is always room for improvement. The district will continue to provide and possibly increase Campus Supervisors on secondary 7-12 campuses. In addition, physical security measures will continue to be put in places, such as alarms, cameras, and fencing. The district will continue to support School Resource Officers to service our campuses. Site Leadership teams have received training on PBIS and are developing and implementing strategies to help promote a bully-free environment.  New: the district will participate in “See Something, Say Something” from Sandy Hook. All administrators will participate in a two-hour presentation and training. “See Something, Say Something” is to be implemented at the school sites.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
12629276008023|Loleta Elementary|6|We administered the CHKS in the 2017-2018 academic year but did not do so 2018-2019. In between we administered our own climate survey. The survey showed us that although we used visuals, restorative circles and taught what bullying is, about 50% of students felt that students said mean bullying things to them. The survey also showed that 90% of the students felt they had at least one adult on campus who they could confide in and go to when needing to feel safe. With the help of the Humboldt County Office of Education, we held a root cause analysis for our stakeholders group, our staff, our students and our ELAC community which resulted in the following three main challenges to our school culture and thus our student performance and attendance 1. Student refusal and lack of positive reinforcement including school wide pre-teaching and testing behavioral supports 2. Chronic absenteeism 3. Poor parent input.  What we did to address academic strength needs: Students who have a history of refusing assessments were identified and positive behavioral intervention strategies will be identified and implemented. Professional development with teachers on implementing positive behavioral intervention strategies to support student participation. Professional development about intrinsic bias and microaggressions. Positive pre-teaching and school wide efforts to encourage and support student participation. Practice test taking. Students will work with the state provided interim tests to practice familiarity with technology as it pertains to the test requirements and academic requirements. Our Superintendent, and school psychologist recognized the need to develop better relationships between all the students and staff. The first step was assess any student exhibiting behaviors affecting their ability to stay in class. Secondly to meet with parents as an SST and develop a behavior plan for any students needing support with constant feedback between teacher, family and psychologist. For our tier three students, recommended therapy and alternative spaces if needed. We saw the beginnings of change by the end of the year. There was a decrease in suspensions for the majority of the population, less physicality and more restorative practices and a feeling of peace on the campus. Students began having fun versus constantly reporting agitation. We also brought in art, music and P.E. In the 2019-2020 year we have plans for a sensory room and a Zen Den where students have the opportunity to prevent and de-escalate. Plan to implement Love and Logic schoolwide in the 2019-2020 year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
12629270000000|Loleta Union Elementary|6|We administered the CHKS in the 2017-2018 academic year but did not do so 2018-2019. In between we administered our own climate survey. The survey showed us that although we used visuals, restorative circles and taught what bullying is, about 50% of students felt that students said mean bullying things to them. The survey also showed that 90% of the students felt they had at least one adult on campus who they could confide in and go to when needing to feel safe. With the help of the Humboldt County Office of Education, we held a root cause analysis for our stakeholders group, our staff, our students and our ELAC community which resulted in the following three main challenges to our school culture and thus our student performance and attendance 1. Student refusal and lack of positive reinforcement including school wide pre-teaching and testing behavioral supports 2. Chronic absenteeism 3. Poor parent input.  What we did to address academic strength needs: Students who have a history of refusing assessments were identified and positive behavioral intervention strategies will be identified and implemented. Professional development with teachers on implementing positive behavioral intervention strategies to support student participation. Professional development about intrinsic bias and microaggressions. Positive pre-teaching and school wide efforts to encourage and support student participation. Practice test taking. Students will work with the state provided interim tests to practice familiarity with technology as it pertains to the test requirements and academic requirements. Our Superintendent, and school psychologist recognized the need to develop better relationships between all the students and staff. The first step was assess any student exhibiting behaviors affecting their ability to stay in class. Secondly to meet with parents as an SST and develop a behavior plan for any students needing support with constant feedback between teacher, family and psychologist. For our tier three students, recommended therapy and alternative spaces if needed. We saw the beginnings of change by the end of the year. There was a decrease in suspensions for the majority of the population, less physicality and more restorative practices and a feeling of peace on the campus. Students began having fun versus constantly reporting agitation. We also brought in art, music and P.E. In the 2019-2020 year we have plans for a sensory room and a Zen Den where students have the opportunity to prevent and de-escalate. Plan to implement Love and Logic schoolwide in the 2019-2020 year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
43695000000000|Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary|6|We are in the process of determining the best survey tool for gathering valid measures of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. We have preliminary plans to re-administer the Search Institute Survey: Profiles of Student Life – Attitudes and Behaviors. In the interim, we have conducted a variety of student focus-groups to gather school climate indicators of success and opportunities for improvement including, but not limited to, monthly in-person Superintendent meetings with students totaling 200 students annually, a facilitated asset-building workshop for approximately 70 students representing diverse student groupings, and teacher-led discussions. The information gathered has been used to identify specific actions and goals within our newly-adopted strategic plan. Examples of actionable outcomes include, support for students regarding social-media impacts, increased student engagement activities during lunch and/or other unstructured time and revisiting our orientation programs to improve school-to-school transitions.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
54719930124776|Loma Vista Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
49708470127555|Loma Vista Immersion Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
42692290000000|Lompoc Unified|6|The Lompoc Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year.  The survey will be administered to students in grades five, seven and nine during the 2019-2020 school year.  Data complied from the 2017-2018 administration was reported to the Board of Education.  The data indicated strengths in the areas of students feeling connected to school staff and students feeling safe at school.  Disaggregated data indicates 11th grade students do not feel as connected to a school staff member as 5th, 7th or 9th grade students.  The District has identified students' social-emotional health and increasing students in making decisions about their learning areas focus for the upcoming school year.  More than 10% of students in grades 7, 9 and 11 reported to have seriously considered attempting suicide during the '17-'18 school year.  More than 44% of students at each level reported they have no say in decision-making regarding their learning.  The District provides funding for student support counselors at all sites.    The District has applied for grants aimed at improving school safety and increasing social-emotional supports for students.  The most significant challenge for LUSD, under Priority 6, is the number of students who have significant trauma impacting their academic and social development, grades K-12.  The LCAP will continue to fund health staff, behavior specialists and seek training opportunities for staff in order to address the identified students needs.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
14632890000000|Lone Pine Unified|6|All of the students at LPUSD (grades K-12) were surveyed. Appropriate age groups took the Healthy Kids survey as administered by Inyo County Superintendent of Schools.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19647250000000|Long Beach Unified|6|Over the past year, students' overall favorable responses on the School Culture and Climate Survey increased from 70% to 73%. Parent results inched by a percentage point to 94%, while staff responses dipped slightly from 83% to 82%. Students’ overall favorable responses on the Social-Emotional Learning Survey went from 68% to 70%. The growth that LBUSD saw in positive student perceptions was slightly higher than in the previous survey administration.  The School Culture and Climate Survey had four main categories: climate of support for academic learning; knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules, and norms; safety; and sense of belonging (school connectedness). For secondary students, while favorable responses increased by two percentage points for climate of support and school connectedness, it went down by two percentage points for safety. This latter category went up by a percentage point for both elementary students and parents. Staff responses showed some decline for knowledge and fairness, safety, and school connectedness.  The Social-Emotional Learning Survey had four main categories: self-management, self-efficacy, social awareness, and growth mindset. Self-management went down by a percentage point, but self-efficacy, which had been LBUSD’s greatest area for improvement, grew by three percentage points. In particular, 57% agreed with the idea that “I can master the hardest topics in my classes,” an improvement of five percentage points. “I can meet all the learning goals my teachers set” rose from 70% to 74%. In an effort to accelerate progress, LBUSD revised its plan by increasing funds for enhanced efforts in mental health / social emotional support services and tutoring. Based on feedback from community organizations and other stakeholders, LBUSD had identified 30 high-need schools where unduplicated students make up a large share of the population, and these sites received greater resources. Twenty-five of them had access to additional regional mental health and social-emotional services in new Family Resource Centers. These centers coincided with the establishment of a 250:1 ratio of student to counselor personnel in five high schools with the most significant needs.|2019-08-20||Met|2019
18750366010763|Long Valley|6|Surveys were conducted during March and April 2019 to all enrolled students and their families and included questions on student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Survey results include: 90.34% of Doyle parents and 100% of Portola parents responded affirmatively to the statement, "my child feels connected to the school community".  Responses to school safety include:  Doyle:  grades 6-12: 85.71% grades K-5:92.47 parents: 100% Portola:  grades 6-12: 100% grades K-5: 100% parents: 100% Student’s sense of safety is of extreme importance.  During the 2019-20 school year, efforts for classroom meetings in Doyle (grades 6-12) will be initiated to determine the causes of this statistic.  Last year there was an elevated response to bullying at the Doyle campus.  This year, the response to experiencing bullying at school dropped from 43% to 22.45%.  The continued implementation of PBIS and the use of STOP-IT, an anti-bullying application will continue.  Additionally, The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered. 45 students in grades 7-12 responded.  Of those respondents, 67% had a high degree of agreement that they felt a sense of connectedness to the school.  This was a slight improvement over last year’s results.  Results of concern are 39% of students responded yes to having chronic sad or hopeless feelings.  The school provides mental health support and intends to make sure all student and families know of its availability.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
18641626010763|Long Valley Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
18641620135756|Long Valley Charter - Susanville|6||||Not Met|2019
31668450117150|Loomis Basin Charter|6|LBCS continues to be proud of the educational experience our students receive. As an International Baccalaureate World school, authorized in both the Primary Years and the Middle Years Programs, we use the Learner Profile to guide our positive behavior interventions. Students learn, practice, and model IB attributes like being balanced and caring, and being reflective and principled. From a climate survey, 90% of LBCS parents “agree” or “strongly agree” that there is an atmosphere of care, respect and responsibility at my child’s school, and 92% of our parents believe that their, "child's school has programs that promote positive student behavior."   Additionally, LBCS incorporates a K-8 fine arts program, a K-8 music program, including an additional Band for 5th and 6th graders, and K-8 Spanish instruction. Extra-curricular activities, such as the Loomis Basin Athletic League, the LUSD choir, and the Junior Eagle Band, support engagement within the district community.  Our efforts to improve the learning environment are evident across the school campuses. Based on a survey of our 4th through 8th graders, 85% of students reported that they “always” or “often” felt safe at school.   One area that we will continue to focus on to improve the learning environment for students is in providing social-emotional instruction, with some support from District Counselors. By providing direct instruction in this area, we hope to increase our students’ abilities to navigate social and emotional challenges at school with the ultimate goal of increasing student resiliency. As indicated in the California School Dashboard, we continue to maintain a low suspension rate.  Additionally, LBCS and LUSD take pride in maintaining our school facilities and completing maintenance projects throughout the year to ensure that our schools are in top shape to support our students in their learning.|2019-11-07|LBCS is evaluated by the IBO every five years to ensure that we meet the standards to be qualified as an IB World School. Evaluators examine our philosophy, our organization, and our teaching, learning, and assessment. Both our Primary Years and Middle Years Programs have completed successful evaluation visits.|Met|2019
31668450000000|Loomis Union Elementary|6|LUSD continues to be proud of the educational environment provided to ensure an optimal learning experience for students. We are guided by the motto of “WE ARE LUSD- We Accept All, Respect All, Educate All” and are continually reviewing our facilities and programs to ensure that we are meeting the needs of all learners. LUSD takes pride in maintaining our school facilities and completing maintenance projects throughout the year to ensure that our schools are in top shape to support our students in their learning. In addition, LUSD implements a variety of programs designed to increase student engagement with, and connection to, their school community. LUSD has four schools implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS); all of which have been recognized by the California PBIS Coalition for exemplary implementation at either silver, gold, or platinum levels.  Additionally, LUSD incorporates a music program (including Band and Choir) at all school sites, and extra-curricular activities such as the Loomis Basin Athletic League, to support engagement in athletic contests within the school community.   Our efforts to improve the learning environment are evident across the school campuses. Based on a survey of our 5th-8th grade students in 2017, 87.2% of the students responded that they either "always" or "often" feel safe at and connected to their school. In 2019, LUSD sent out a student survey focused on instructional technology access and use.  This survey, which had an 80% participation rate, provided data to each school site around which areas for improvement could be generated.  LUSD plans to survey 5th-8th grade students in 2020 with a focus on how students feel about safety, support, and connection at school.  This survey will utilize a likert scale.  One area that we will continue to focus on to improve the learning environment for students is in providing social-emotional instruction.  By providing direct instruction in this area, we hope to increase our students’ abilities to navigate social and emotional challenges at school with the ultimate goal of increasing student resiliency. As indicated in the California School Dashboard, we continue to maintain a low suspension rate. Implementation of PBIS and other social emotional support programs are designed to assist students in learning appropriate school behaviors with the ultimate goal of an overall reduction in school behaviors leading to suspension.|2019-11-07|In addition to PBIS, LUSD has a number of programs and initiatives that support a positive school climate. Two LUSD schools participate in the International Baccalaureate program and one school implements a CARE values program to support the character development of students.  Furthermore, our student support staff, including school psychologists and counselors, provide instruction and support to increase prosocial behaviors at school.|Met|2019
30739240000000|Los Alamitos Unified|6|The CHKS, which is administered every other year, was administered to all grade 11 students in Spring 2018. 89% of students indicated a moderate or high level of school connectedness. Internal metrics showed that 71% of students were connected to Los Alamitos High School through at least one or more activity, arts endeavor, and/or athletic participation. The District values connectedness as a Board Priority and continues to find ways in which to open access for students beyond the classroom. On the CHKS, 82% of grade 11 students reported feeling "very safe" or "safe" with 16% stating they neither felt safe or unsafe. The District has taken numerous measures to create a safe learning environment including stationing a School Resource Officer at Los Alamitos High School, employing eleven campus supervisors, dedicating a site administrator to oversee the implementation of school wide safety procedures and having a Director of Safety and Personnel Services to oversee safety procedures and protocols districtwide. LAHS has recently installed a video surveillance system, brand new fire alarm and updated the visitor management system. The Board of Education has made student safety a Board Priority Goal. Substance abuse prevention continues to be a focus. 60% of students in grade 11 reported using alcohol or drugs in 2018. The District has a robust, comprehensive substance abuse prevention program and substance abuse prevention task force overseen by the Director of Safety and Personnel Services. Random Drug Testing, Drug Canine Program, Alternative to Suspension Program, Parent/Student Information Nights, Red Ribbon Week, Every 15 Minutes, Prescription Drug Take Back Events, and many other efforts and programs are employed to combat drug use in the community.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
43695180000000|Los Altos Elementary|6|Last year LASD administered a Social Emotional Survey to all students in grades 3-8. The survey looked at the following areas: Academic Behaviors, Academic Mindset, Academic Perseverance, Classroom Context, Learning Strategies, and Social Skills. Three questions we are tracking on the LCAP include: I actively participate in class discussions. 70%  I feel like I belong at this school. 78% I feel safe at my school. 83% As a district, we continue to work on relationship building, creating safe and supportive classroom environments and schools, and building academic conversation skills to support classroom engagement.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330110304|Los Angeles Academy of Arts and Enterprise|6|There were multiple improvements observed on the school climate survey. The indicator - Most students feel safe on campus - increased to 50% from 44%. The indicator - Most parents are informed about classroom activities - increased to 55% from 43%. The indicator - Most families find the school to be a welcoming place - increased to 50% from 43%. The indicator - The school feels like an inviting inclusive place - increased to 45% from 40%. The indicator - The school does a good job communicating with parents - increased to 52% from 44%.|2019-08-29|During school year 2017-2018, there were multiple leadership and staff changes. The noted improvements last year may be related to the stability of staff and programs.|Met|2019
19772890109942|Los Angeles College Preparatory Academy|6|Data: On the 2018-2019 School Climate Survey 92% of the students reported they like the school and are here by choice, while 8% indicated they are here because of their parent's choice.  93% of the students reported they feel as if they are learning and their teachers are supporting them. 4% did not answer that section of the survey, while 3% fell neutral in this category. 91% of the students reported they strongly feel that teachers and administration supports them. 3% did not answer the question and 4% fell neutral and 2% disagreed in this category. 95% reported they felt the instructional environment was safe, 5% did not answer the question. Meaning: The results indicate that the greater portion of the student population enjoy the school, their teachers, learning and feel safe. LACPA have developed a behavioral matrix and school culture of positivity and reform rather than being punitive.  LACPA is still finding ways to engage more parents in events, meetings and decision making processes. There are families that are consistent in their presence but we need to engage more and new parents.|2019-06-25|LACPA is making meaningful efforts to constantly improve programming, events and outside activities to create a fun and real-world experience for students. LACPA has identified grants over the past year to assist in student funding of AP and PSAT exams, college applications, sports and dual enrollment fees as applicable.|Met|2019
19101990000000|Los Angeles County Office of Education|6|For the 2018-2019 school year, LACOE Educational Programs continued to focus on reducing suspensions and improving safety throughout all schools. LACOE-wide implementation of Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) continues throughout the juvenile court schools and county community schools. Each school has maintained a PBIS site-level team with various agency partners represented. These teams regularly review data, improve practice and analyze school wide expectations and rewards. This past year Barry J. Nidorf Juvenile Hall School, Central Juvenile Hall School, and Angeles Forest Principal Administrative Unit Camp Schools received state recognition earning the Bronze level for PBIS.  Data - With regard to the LCAP Survey, LACOE received the responses of 312 students who answered the following: Learning Environment "My school provides me with a good education" 85% of students agreed with this statement. "I believe my school prepares me for future college and career paths" 69% of students agreed with this statement.  School Climate "I look forward to participating in school each day" 72% of students agreed with this statement. "I feel safe and supported while at school" 79% of students agreed with this statement. "If I have a problem, I know I have someone at school that I can talk to" 68% of students agreed with this statement. "My school is clean, safe, and in good condition" 79% of students agree with this statement.  Meaning - Although the majority of student survey respondents have a positive outlook on the school with regards to the learning environment and climate, there is definite room for improvement. Therefore, a continued focus on PBIS is needed along with continued focus on teacher instruction and student engagement. Over the past year, the largest barrier to improving in these areas has been inconsistency among agency partners and staff turnover due to the reduction in force (RIF). As our incarcerated settings continue to downsize, layoffs are inevitable. Therefore, site teams change and continued training must take place to build capacity among staff.  Use - Due to this data and other means of assessment, it has been determined that staff will continue to receive training in Nonviolent Crisis Intervention (NCI), restorative practices, trauma-informed teaching, and PBIS. Additionally, seven Counselor Behavior Managers positions have been created for the purpose of increasing attendance, decreasing suspensions, and providing behavior counseling at the school sites. The Counselor Behavior Managers' work will be executed through and MTSS framework applying methodologies from PBIS, NCI, restorative justice, and other proven strategies.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19101990109942|Los Angeles International Charter High|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19647331996610|Los Angeles Leadership Academy|6|(DATA) Students at our school take a School Climate Survey at least three times in a school year. These initial results identify that 66.6% of students strongly agree or somewhat agree that this school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn. 54.5% of the students surveyed feel that there’s an adult to go to if they being bullied and 46.5% of students feel that they are treated with respect by the adults. In terms of connectedness, approximately half of the students shared that they like school (agree or strongly agree), and 63.7% of students believe that the school promotes academic success for all students.   (MEANING) The data demonstrates that generally students feel safe at school, but there’s a need to increase connectedness amongst students and practice interpersonal skills. This data correlates with other types of data collected at school via observations, teacher input, family input, and discipline data. There are rules, structures, and systems in place to clarify expectations and to provide the necessary incentives and consequences. We continue to work through PBIS activities to reinforce the positive school climate that we strive for.  (USE) We have committed to improving our school culture through researching and practicing how to be more culturally responsive. In 2018 we formed a school PBIS committee that continues to work on culture and will continued to define our vision of school community. The goal is to create a positive school environment that is supportive of rigorous learning where all participants hold each other to high expectations. We have also committed to adding in subgroup data as part of the survey in order to allow us to desegregate the data. This will allow us to ensure all students are feeling safe and connected.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
19647330124818|Los Angeles Leadership Primary Academy|6|(DATA) Students at our school take a School Climate Survey at least three times in a school year. These initial results identify that 89.7% of students strongly agree or somewhat agree that school is safe. 94% of elementary students feel that there’s an adult to go to if they need anything and that adults at school care about them. In terms of connectedness, 94.6% of students share they like school (agree or strongly agree), and 98% feel that they are respected at school.  (MEANING) The data demonstrates that generally students feel safe at school, but there’s a need to increase connectedness amongst students and practice interpersonal skills. This data correlates with other types of data collected at school via observations, teacher input, family input, and discipline data. There are rules, structures, and systems in place to clarify expectations and to provide the necessary incentives and consequences. We continue to work through PBIS activities to reinforce the positive school climate that we strive for.  (USE) We have committed to improving our school culture through researching and practicing how to be more culturally responsive. In 2018 we formed a school PBIS committee that continues to work on culture and will continued to define our vision of school community. The goal is to create a positive school environment that is supportive of rigorous learning where all participants hold each other to high expectations. We have also committed to adding in subgroup data as part of the survey in order to allow us to desegregate the data. This will allow us to ensure all students are feeling safe and connected.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
19647330000000|Los Angeles Unified|6|LAUSD administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate:  • School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 82%. • The percentage rates of middle and high school students reporting being happy at school were 74% and 67% respectively. Sixty-eight percent of middle school students reported feeling like they are part of their school, while 61% of high school students also reported feeling they were a part of their school. • LAUSD schools were perceived to be safe places by at least 82% of students. • When students were asked if adults treated them with respect, 80% of elementary school students, 68% of middle school students and 61% of high school students replied in the affirmative.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
24657550000000|Los Banos Unified|6|To determine the perceptions of school safety and connectedness, LBUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CKHS) and the annual LCAP survey by Hanover Research.   1. Key Learnings Responses from students, staff, and parents to the Hanover survey paint a generally positive picture of the school climate at LBUSD schools.  Of the over 1500 responses from secondary students, 73% feel they belong in school, 79% feel safe at school, and 76% feel that adults care about them.  Elementary students reported similar response with 75% responding that they feel safe and belong at school and 67% reported that adults care about them.  Among parents, the results were even more positive, with over 90% of parents responding that they feel LBUSD schools are preparing their students for the next grade level and that they are satisfied with school safety and communication home.  The CKHS paints a much different picture.  In 5th grade, students responded they feel connected to their schools.  That percentage drops to only 25% in 7th grade and drops to 12% in 11th grade.  A majority of students responses indicate they feel safe at school (over 50%).  However, in the category of mental health given only to secondary students, 35% of 9th graders and 42% of 11th graders expressed that they have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness in the last 12 months.  Also, 21% of 9th graders and 20% of 11th graders have considered suicide in the past 12 months.  2. Meaning STRENGTHS AND AREAS OF GROWTH: LBUSD students at both the elementary and the secondary levels feels safe and comfortable at school.  The percentage of students reporting physical altercations with other students decreases from middle school to high school.  Students report that they like being challenged and like to learn, which indicates higher motivation for learning than is typically perceived.  CHALLENGES:  Over 80% of students report they understand they need to behave at school, but only 37% feel their peers actually behave.  In the CKHS, low percentages of students report feel they have caring adult relationships (18% of 9th graders), yet in response to the Hanover Survey, 76% responded that adults care about them.  The high percentage of students reporting feelings of chronic sadness and/or hopelessness and suicidal thoughts is cause for concern.   3. Actions In response to the results of this indicator and as part of the LBUSD cycle of continuous improvement, LBUSD has taken and is taking the following actions.  LBUSD began work last year on implementing PBIS systems of support across school sites.  Training and support is being provided to better equip staff to handle student misbehavior and promote positive student behavior.  LBUSD hired additional wellness counselors to provide guidance, direction, and administer groups to students struggling with a variety of mental and social issues. In addition, LBUSD has contracted with local agencies for clinicians to provide mental health support.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
19647330137463|Los Feliz Charter Middle School for the Arts|6|Per our Annual Stakeholder Survey, given to parents, students, and staff, there are many questions scored above the 90% level of agreed or strongly agreed with respect to the instructional program, feeling supported, access to information, etc.  When considering the strongest and weakest areas, the highest 2 indicators for parents was 1)LFCSA has developed and communicated an inspiring vision for its future; 2) My child(ren) is getting a good education at LFCSA.  Areas they wanted more information with was specifically to learn more about our ELA and mathematics programs so that they could better support their students.  For the student responses, the highest two indicators were: 1) The teachers at this school are caring; 2) my teachers set high expectations for my learning. The lowest scoring indictors were their excitement to go to school, and feeling the need for staff support in resolving conflicts with one another.  For the staff, the areas of strength were: 1) caring teachers; 2) The school creates and environment where children feel encouraged to ask questions.  The areas of growth were to have better understanding of our ELA program and helping create a stronger sense of safety. Per our Annual Stakeholder Survey, given to parents, students, and staff, there are many questions scored above the 90% level of agreed or strongly agreed with respect to the instructional program, feeling supported, access to information, etc.  The highest 2 indicators for parents was 1)LFCSA has developed and communicated an inspiring vision for its future; 2) My child(ren) is getting a good education at LFCSA.  Areas they wanted more information with was specifically to learn more about our ELA and mathematics programs so that they could better support their students.  For the student responses, the highest two indicators were: 1) The teachers at this school are caring; 2) my teachers set high expectations for my learning. The lowest scoring indictors were their excitement to go to school, and feeling the need for staff support in resolving conflicts with one another.  For the staff, the areas of strength were: 1) caring teachers; 2) The school creates and environment where children feel encouraged to ask questions.  The areas of growth were to have better understanding of our ELA program and helping create a stronger sense of safety.  From the analysis of the data, the School Site Council determined the following for areas of work for the next year:  More social emotional training for staff, more parent workshops on the instructional program and other topics that would be helpful in their feeling informed, improving the use of our new communication system to ensure that information is sent in a timely and organized manner.  We have scheduled Responsive Classroom training and will be conducting parent workshops on SEL and mathematics.  Classroom instruction will continue to be communicated via weekly classroom newsletters.|2019-11-21||Met|2019
19647330112235|Los Feliz Charter School for the Arts|6|Per our Annual Stakeholder Survey, given to parents, students, and staff, there are many questions scored above the 90% level of agreed or strongly agreed with respect to the instructional program, feeling supported, access to information, etc.  When considering the strongest and weakest areas, the highest 2 indicators for parents was 1)LFCSA has developed and communicated an inspiring vision for its future; 2) My child(ren) is getting a good education at LFCSA.  Areas they wanted more information with was specifically to learn more about our ELA and mathematics programs so that they could better support their students.  For the student responses, the highest two indicators were: 1) The teachers at this school are caring; 2) my teachers set high expectations for my learning. The lowest scoring indictors were their excitement to go to school, and feeling the need for staff support in resolving conflicts with one another.  For the staff, the areas of strength were: 1) caring teachers; 2) The school creates and environment where children feel encouraged to ask questions.  The areas of growth were to have better understanding of our ELA program and helping create a stronger sense of safety. Per our Annual Stakeholder Survey, given to parents, students, and staff, there are many questions scored above the 90% level of agreed or strongly agreed with respect to the instructional program, feeling supported, access to information, etc.  The highest 2 indicators for parents was 1)LFCSA has developed and communicated an inspiring vision for its future; 2) My child(ren) is getting a good education at LFCSA.  Areas they wanted more information with was specifically to learn more about our ELA and mathematics programs so that they could better support their students.  For the student responses, the highest two indicators were: 1) The teachers at this school are caring; 2) my teachers set high expectations for my learning. The lowest scoring indictors were their excitement to go to school, and feeling the need for staff support in resolving conflicts with one another.  For the staff, the areas of strength were: 1) caring teachers; 2) The school creates and environment where children feel encouraged to ask questions.  The areas of growth were to have better understanding of our ELA program and helping create a stronger sense of safety.  From the analysis of the data, the School Site Council determined the following for areas of work for the next year:  More social emotional training for staff, more parent workshops on the instructional program and other topics that would be helpful in their feeling informed, improving the use of our new communication system to ensure that information is sent in a timely and organized manner.  We have scheduled Responsive Classroom training and will be conducting parent workshops on SEL and mathematics.  Classroom instruction will continue to be communicated via weekly classroom newsletters.|2019-11-21||Met|2019
43695260000000|Los Gatos Union Elementary|6|LGUSD continues to foster caring, welcoming and engaging school climates across the district.    Local Climate Survey Summary Based on the results from the Project Cornerstone Survey given in 2016, the District developed a local survey to explore specific areas of focus: • Caring School Climate • School Engagement  OVERALL CLIMATE Students like their schools: • Elementary—96.01%  • Middle School—86.83%  Students are proud to be at their schools: • Elementary—95.66%  • Middle School—82.8%  OVERALL SCHOOL ENGAGEMENT Teachers encourage students to share ideas: • Elementary—96.8%  • Middle School—84.78%  Teachers use many ways to make learning fun and interesting: • Elementary—92.43% • Middle School—74.91%  Students have choices in their learning activities: • Elementary—83.72% • Middle School—56.69%  DATA USE • Information disaggregated and shared with school principals to be evaluated for specific responses and strategies on each campus. • Principals and school staff use data to identify individual strategies and focus areas. • Principals and staff held student focus groups to explore the data with the students.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
43695340000000|Los Gatos-Saratoga Union High|6|The California Health Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered at both Los Gatos High School and Saratoga High School in February 2019. An in depth analysis was conducted and results of the current survey was compared with two similar high school districts, as well as to the CHKS results from 2009-10 (last time survey was administered in the District).  Relative strengths for Los Gatos High School were in the School Connectedness and Other Physical and Mental Health Risk domains. Relative areas for growth for Los Gatos High School were in the Alcohol and Other Drug Use and School Violence, Victimization, and Safety Domains.     Relative strengths for Saratoga High School were in the Alcohol and Other Drug Use and School Violence, Victimization, and Safety Domains. Relative areas for growth for Saratoga High School were in the School Connectedness and Other Physical and Mental Health Risk domains.  Results will be shared and discussed with all stakeholders to identify and focus resources and programs to address reducing risk taking behaviors and increase positive youth development.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
52715710000000|Los Molinos Unified|6|LMUSD conducts school climate surveys yearly. The surveys are completed by parents and students. The analysis of the results clearly indicate students feel safe and supported by teachers. At the high school, students feel slightly connected to the Principal. Parents indicated having direct access to teachers and staff by email or phone. In addition, a majority of the parents felt their children were treated fairly and are supported by staff and teachers.  LMUSD Board Goal# 7: Maintain a Positive School Climate has actions/strategies supported by measurements and indicators such as; continue implementation of PBIS, Peer Mediators, Restorative Justice Disciplinary Practices, and increase in Parent Involvement. The data from the surveys validate that programs are working and should be sustained for years to come.|2019-09-19|LMUSD will continue to refine the actions and strategies and review the results to determine changes to Board Goal # 7: Maintain a Positive School Climate.|Met|2019
19647580000000|Los Nietos|6|Data: * Elementary & Middle School students have a very strong perception of safety and connectedness Challenges: * Participation rates have been a challenge in obtaining a large enough target population for the necessary data. Barriers: * Funding for teacher professional development poses barriers. * The finite amount of time & personnel for full implementation Los Nietos School District has seen progress in school engagement, we have spent a significant amount of time during the 2017-18 and 2018-19 school years to identify causes and impacts in the rise of Special Education students, which have included focus groups and interviews, in order to identify ways that we can provide services that better match student needs.    Los Nietos School District is implementing CHAMPS, a multi-tiered behavioral framework that drives data-focused decision-making in schools and Restorative Practices.  The District has seen growth in all areas of social-emotional learning.  The District will continue to provide support through professional development opportunities, materials, and coaching in order to implement evidence-based programs with fidelity.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
42692450000000|Los Olivos Elementary|6|The Healthy Kids Survey showed strong results in the area of culture for the school district. Areas of concern were chronic absenteeism and a small percentage of student that had drank alcohol. The school needs to employ clerical help to monitor student absences more closely and to engage with families to provide support in this area. The school also needs to continue to bring in outside drug and alcohol counseling to meet with students at various grade levels.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
15635940000000|Lost Hills Union Elementary|6|The district administers a 21 question locally designed School Climate Survey. All students in grades 3rd- 8th complete the survey on a yearly basis. Survey is analyzed by a student leadership team and administrators. Results are shared with staff, parents, and board members. This year's survey indicates the following: Q1: My school provides everything I need to learn while at school. Responses- 97% Agree. Q5: I look forward to coming to school each day. Responses- 90% Agree. Q7: I feel safe while at school. Responses- 98.8% Agree. Q15: Our school facilities are in good repair. Responses- 96% Agree.  Survey results indicate that the most students feel safe while in school. However, only 90% of students indicated that they look forward to coming to school each day. This percentage is also reflected in the overall attendance for 2018-19 (95.91%).  In 2019-20 the district will focus on enhancing its Multi Tier Systems of Support (MTSS) to improve school climate. More specifically, the district is committed to blending behavioral and academic supports into one integrated system. The district will place a focus on expanding Tier II interventions and supports.|2019-10-14|Lost Hills Union School District partnered with two other rural school districts in Kern County at the end of the 2018-19 school year and created the West Kern Consortium (WKC) for school climate transformation. The consortium applied for an was awarded the School Climate Transformation Grant through the U.S. Department of Education. Through this five year grant, the consortium will focus on improving school climate through the following priorities: 1)  Protecting Freedom of Speech and encouraging respectful interactions in a safe educational environment. 2) Fostering knowledge and promoting the development of skills that prepare students to be informed, thoughtful, and productive individuals and citizens. 3) Opioid use and prevention.|Met|2019
19647660000000|Lowell Joint|6|We provide access for all students in grades 3-8 to a modified survey from PBIS to measure our school climate for students in addition to a few questions from the parent survey that ask about how their kids perceive school. From the parent survey, 91% of parents Agree or Strongly Agree that their student is happy to go to school. 95% of parents also Agree or Strongly Agree that the schools are “safe, orderly, and well disciplined”.   From the students themselves, we had 347 responses from Rancho Starbuck and 905 responses from the various elementary sites. Each Principal has been given the disaggregated data for their site to use in planning for the upcoming year.  For our one intermediate school, 46% of kids say they like school either Always or Often. When asked if they felt the school wants them to do well, 66% said Always with another 20% at Often for a total of 86%. In terms of getting along with other students, 81% said Always or Often, but only 45% said the same of students treating each other well. 76% of students felt safe at school with another 75% who feel there is a caring adult at the school who will help if needed. While clear that students feel relatively safe and that adults want them to do well, there is definitely an undercurrent of students not liking school, not treating each other well although they get along, and a need to reinforce positive behavior since only 49% felt good behavior was noticed on campus. We are looking into a program for next year called Olweus that involves a lot of work around school climate. The counselor has attended multiple training sessions already to set the stage for next year if this will provide support for re-engaging students with each other in both their learning and social interactions.  asked if they felt the school wants them to do well, 89% said Always with another 7% at Often for a total of 96%. In terms of getting along with other students, 86% said Always or Often, but only 66% said the same of students treating each other well. 85% of students felt safe at school with another 86% who feel there is a caring adult at the school who will help if needed.  So again, there seems to be a difference between getting along and treating each other well. 72% of elementary students felt that good behavior is noticed on site. As Principals are analyzing their site specific data, we will do some more disaggregating by grade, gender, etc. to determine if there are any student groups that are experiencing negative aspects of school climate more than others.|2019-06-24||Met|2019
01612590126748|LPS Oakland R & D Campus|6|LPS students complete an annual Panorama school climate surveys to provide input and feedback regarding their school experience. The response rate for the Fall 2018 Student School Survey was 63% (282 of 450 students).  Forty-two percent of students responded that they completely belong or belong quite a bit at school, up 4% points from Spring 2018. Thirty-nine percent of students expressed that they somewhat belong, 12% reported belonging a little bit and 7% not at all.   Looking at key subgroups, 25% of Special Education, 42% of African American, and 44% of English Learner students responded that they completely belong or belong quite a bit at school.  Belonging was low for students with a GPA < 2.0, with 30% responding that they completely belong or belong quite a bit; although that did represent an improvement of 8 percentage points from the prior year.  We continue to work to strengthen conditions for belonging. A particular focus for 2019-20 is belonging among students served by Special Education. Focus areas also include English Learners’ sense of belonging and academic engagement and identity of students not yet meeting course standards.  We have also put in place cross-Network programs to increase the sense of identity and belonging among African American students. LPS holds student sense of belonging as a core goal.  We work to enact curriculum, instruction, student support, family and community partnership, and general organizational values and ways of being that uphold and strengthen belonging. Student survey results were a key source for data-driven year-end reflection and planning to inform improvement at network, school and classroom levels. We continue to leverage student survey data to guide ongoing improvement and are now in the midst of the fall 2018 survey administration.|2019-10-19|Met|Met|2019
17640480000000|Lucerne Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to students in the 5th -7th grade.  It is a survey that gauges resilience, risky behaviors, protective factors, and a sense of safety.  This survey is a reliable tool for understanding students’ perspectives on school culture and climate.   School Connectedness:  5th-grade results 68% of students felt highly connected,  26% felt moderately connected, and 5% felt a low level of connectedness  6th-grade results 40% of students felt highly connected, 53% felt moderately connected, and 7% felt a low level of connectedness  7th-grade results 64% of students felt highly connected, 21% of felt moderately connected, and 14% felt a low level of connectedness Summary: The breakdown of these results indicates that most of the students in the 5th -7th feel that they are connected to our school. They feel like they have created meaningful and respectful relationships with their peers and the staff at our school. Academic Motivation:  5th-grade results 39% feel highly motivated academically,  39% feel moderately motivated academically, and  22% feel low academic motivation  6th-grade results 43% feel highly motivated academically,  36% feel moderately motivated academically, and  21% feel low academic motivation  7th-grade results 29% feel highly motivated academically, 43% feel moderately motivated academically, and  29% feel low academic motivation  Summary: The analysis of these results suggests that most students are academically motivated to meet the classroom learning objectives. It is concerning the percent of students that are not academically motivated.  The district has programs in place that will help support students academically and personally.  PBIS supports positive behavior while  AVID uses “Best Practices” to develop  academic routines in students. School Safety:  94% of students in the 5th-7th grade feel very safe at school.  Summary: These results indicate that a large majority of our students feel safe at school.  There was a significant improvement in this area compared to last year’s results.|2019-07-12||Met|2019
36750510000000|Lucerne Valley Unified|6|We surveyed elementary, middle, and high school students asking how they felt about their school. Here are the results: 81.4% of students agreed that they liked school.  80.7% felt they were successful.  85.3% agreed their school wanted them to do well or had high standards for achievement.  87% agreed that their school had clear rules for behavior.  84.7% agreed teachers treat them with respect.  75.1% agreed they feel safe at school.  88.7% agreed that the staff is working to keep the school and myself safe. 82% agreed there is an adult at school they can go to if they need help.   We found that students in the middle school setting had a lower percentage agreeing that they know an adult as school they can go to if they need help. Plans to help raise that include more visits to the middle school before the school begins and visits from middle school staff to the elementary throughout the year for our 6th graders. Overall percentages were strong for students agreeing in all groups. We believe this is due to our district being small and strong relationships being made between staff and students. Social Emotional Learning classes are beginning at all sites. We believe this will help us in continuous improvement across all areas.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
40687590000000|Lucia Mar Unified|6|In the Spring of 2018 Lucia Mar administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). The California Department of Education (CDE) has funded the CHKS since 1997 to provide data to assist schools in: (1) fostering safe and supportive school climates, social-emotional competencies, and engagement in learning; (2) preventing youth health-risk behaviors and other barriers to academic achievement; and (3) promoting positive youth development, resilience, and well-being. A thorough understanding of the scope and nature of these student behaviors, attitudes, experiences, and supports is essential for guiding school improvement and academic, prevention, and health programs. Survey results are integral in the planning and goal-setting in our LCAP. 535 5th graders took the survey as well as 830 7th graders, 720 9th graders and 620 11th graders. Key findings from 5th graders: 46% feel connected to school 58% are academically motivated 83% feel safe at school 17% reported alcohol or drug use  Key findings: School connectedness: Gr 7-29%, Gr 9 -20%, Grade 11-19% Academic motivation:: Gr 7- 41%, Grade 9- 28%, Grade 11- 28% School perceived as very safe or safe: Grade 7- 71%, Grade 9- 61%, Grade 11- 60% Experienced any harassment or bullying: Grade 7- 36%, Grade 9- 40%, Grade 11- 17% Current alcohol or drug use: Grade 7- 5%, Grade 9- 18%, Grade 11- 29% Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness: Grade 7- 26%, Grade 9- 33%, Grade 11- 37% Considered suicide: Grade 9- 19%, Grade 11- 17%  Data shows a continuing trend of students in need of social-emotional support. We continue to add counseling for students in crisis and improve positive behavior interventions. We also continue to add PD for the classroom teachers such as RTI, MTSS and UDL.|2019-10-15|Individual school sites currently seek input from students in a number of ways. The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered every other year in a few grade levels. We hope to further these efforts with a coordinated districtwide survey for families and students (3rd-12th grade) in the Fall and Spring of the 2019-2020 school year. This is an area of improvement over the existing CHKS information since we will assess in the Fall and the Spring of each year and across 3rd-12th grades. Areas of relative strength and weakness will help determine future discussions and actions.|Met|2019
43694270130856|Luis Valdez Leadership Academy|6|DATA Demographics 98% identified themselves as Latinos/Hispanics 1% as 2 or more races 1% declined to state.   Student Services The survey reflected that students were receiving the following services: ELLs 17% Reduced/Free lunch 63% Special Education 11% 504/accommodations 3% Counseling 22% Athletics 11% Clubs 4% Bus passes 17% Level of Instruction 100% of respondents stated that they were either very satisfied or satisfied with the level of instruction students were receiving from their teachers. School Climate 97% reported that they were very satisfied or satisfied with the school’s efforts to maintaining and/or increasing student attendance and involving students in school activities.  92% stated they felt the campus was safe/very safe.   8% stated they felt the campus was not safe. School updates 97% reported that the school provided highly or very informative updates.   College Preparedness  84% of respondents reported that they expect their student to attend a 4-year college; 11% reported they would attend a Junior College. 72% of parents stated that they were aware of the college entrance requirements, while 28% reported that they were not aware of the requirements. 89% reported that they were able to meet with their student’s counselor to ensure that the appropriate were being taken for college admission.   87% reported that they were aware of scholarship availability and understood how to apply for financial aid.  10% reported that they were not aware of it, the remaining declined to state. 91% agreed that parent and student are able to speak to the counselor about college requirements, class changes, college and career planning, and personal issues. Ability to Access and Utilize the Student Information System 31% use it frequently 25% use it on occasion 23% did not know about it 21% do not use it  Textbooks, facilities and credentialed teachers 99% indicated that the school provides the appropriate number of textbooks and learning materials, as well as a well-maintained school, and appropriately credentialed teachers.   Assessments/Evaluation When asked about the school using a variety of methods to assess outcomes, participants reported the following: 14% totally aware 37% aware 32% somewhat aware  12% not all aware 5% declined to state Suggestions Get rid of the trash in front of the school and move the homeless away from the school Use school funds to ensure students are coming to school, improve outcomes, and provide additional tutoring. Campus supervisors should not be visiting with others during their supervision time, and need to be more professional with families.  General need to improve school safety and monitoring, especially in the parking lot. Need for more communication between home, students, and school. Teachers need to call home when students are not doing well or not completing their homework. More college field trips to increase student motivation Continue with parent workshops and making an effort to engage families|2019-10-30|MEANING:   The stakeholder survey makes clear that while families are generally happy at LVLA, there are still areas of growth that remain and need to be addressed.  Areas of focus will be expanded student support, improved supervision and student safety, and improved communication with families.  USE:  Based on stakeholder feedback from the survey, LVLA is committing to make the following improvements for the upcoming 19-20 academic year :  -More regular communication with families through D and F policy.  (New parent communication policy between teachers and families has been implemented as of October 2019) -Multiple times a year mailing assessment data to all families so that they are better informed of their children’s performance and progress. (first mailing with go out at the end of October) -Work to establish a tutoring center for additional academic support and ability to work on homework with guidance. (Tutoring Center exists on all campuses as of October 21st, first sessions began on October 3rd) -Establish an Office Hours policy to make outside-of-class-support more predictable for families and students. (Office Hours Policy exists as of August 2019) -Hire additional security staff to better monitor campus. (additional security staff have been added as of October, 2019) -Increase the amount of cameras to eliminate monitoring blind spots on campus.  (additional cameras have been added to LVLA’s campus as of October 2019)|Met|2019
43695420000000|Luther Burbank|6|80% of 4th grade students and 67% of 6th & 7th graders report that the school is very safe or safe - a measure of our successful efforts of which we are very proud.  Students likewise report high levels of school involvement and academic motivation, and widely report that caring adults are ubiquitous at the school.  We see that students report very low levels of substance abuse, very rare concerns about physical violence, and average concern about harassment and bullying.  We will continue to focus our resources toward social-emotional learning and counseling supports to assist students these areas of reported highest need.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
43693936046601|Lynhaven Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
19647740000000|Lynwood Unified|6|LUSD surveys students using a variety of topics such as academics, anti-bullying, drug and alcohol abuse, general health, diversity and inclusion, leadership, college and career planning, school safety and connectedness. LUSD also incorporates principles concerning school safety and connectedness from the Positive Behavior Intervention Supports: the PBIS: Self-Assessment Survey which have each been completed by staff members at each school. As well as data from the School Wide Information System in which all schools record their behavior information. After reviewing various student surveys and the California Dashboard, LUSD will analyze the Data to dis-aggregate it into subgroups such as gender, ethnicity, and other groups that the student identifies and to address the needs on the topics of school safety and connectedness through professional development for staff and administration. YouthTruth survey gathers student, parent/guardian, and school staff perceptions to help make schools better and stronger. This is our third year working with YouthTruth and we plan to continue to survey each spring to monitor changes over time. LUSD is currently only surveying at the secondary level, though we may add in elementary at some point. We use their data to understand climate and culture through the “Overall School Experience” Survey Teachers in the core subject areas of Math, English, Science, and Social Studies also receive individual reports with feedback from their students. These reports are only shared with teachers and are for professional development and reflection. 2018-2019 YouthTruth data indicates an increase in positive school culture for both students and parents. There was a 14% increase in the number of students that indicated they felt a connectedness to school and had relationships with peers and staff (from 68% to 82%). We will continue to work with staff on building relationships with students. The 2018-2019 Annual Parent Engagement Survey indicated that 96% of parents felt that they were treated with respect at the school site. Additionally, 99% ( 1,755 responses out of 1,845 responses received) of the parents surveyed indicated that they felt welcome when visiting their child's school campus.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37684113731304|MAAC Community Charter|6|Findings reported:  PARTICIPATION RATE: In the 2017-18 school year, MAAC Community Charter School administered the CA Healthy Kids Secondary School Student Survey. A total of 91 students in grades 9-12 participated (6 in grade 9, 8 in grade 10, 30 in grade 11, and 47 in grade 12). As a result of the low participation rates for grades 9 and 10, their results were not reported by WestED on the CHKS Survey.  However, the overall participation rate for grades 11-12 combined was 45% (48% for grade 11, and 43% for grade 12).   SURVEY FINDINGS:   The following are the survey findings for grades 11-12:   In the area of Caring Relationships: • 79% of grade 11, and 76% grade 12 respondents stated that at MAAC, there are caring adults who notice when I’m not there,” very/pretty much true.  • 78% of grade 11, and 76% grade 12 stated that at MAAC there is a teacher/adult “who listens to me when I have something to say, very/pretty much true.   In the area of school connectedness: • 75% of grade 11, and 57% grade 12 agree/strongly agree they are happy at this school.  • 68% of grade 11, and 50% grade 12 agree/strongly agree - “I feel like I am part of this school.” • 79% of grade 11, and 55% grade 12 agree/strongly agree that they feel safe at MAAC.   In the area of Meaningful Participation: • 36% of grade 11, and 44% grade 12 stated, “I help decide things like class activities or rules,” very/pretty much true. • 42% of grade 11, and 41% grade 12 stated, “I help decide school activities or rules,” very/pretty much true. • 52% of grade 11, and 44% grade 12 stated, “I have a say in how things work,” very/pretty much true.  In the area of verbal harassment at school in the past 12 months: • 86% of grade 11, and 85% grade 12 stated that they have never been made fun of, insulted, or called names.   In the area of Quality of School Physical Environment: • 64% of grade 11, and 43% grade 12 agree/strongly agree that their school is usually clean and tidy.   For the 2018-19 school year, the principal and school staff will utilize the results of the CHKS to improve: schoolwide support services, communication, develop positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to increase student participation rates for the CHKS that will be administered in Spring 2019.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
20102070117184|Madera County Independent Academy|6|The LEA administered a school climate survey.  The survey captured a valid measure of student perception of school safety and connectedness.   The current school population is 52% males and 48% female, 17% in K – 3, 17% in 4 – 6, and 66% of students are in grades 7 and 8.  Of the student’s surveyed, 89% reported feeling safe at school or do not feel unsafe.  In addition, 93% of students reported feeling respected by staff and teachers at school, and 89% reported the school facilities are well maintained.  Of students surveyed, 61% stated feeling comfortable participating in school events, which was a 5% increase from the previous year.  Survey results indicated that 82% of students felt encouraged to participate in school events them and 82% expressed that teachers provided sufficient feedback on their achievement.  Specific items of particular relevance to school safety and connectedness include factors outside of the school setting which include emotional needs, substance and alcohol abuse, gang involvement, transportation and challenging family environments.   Analysis of the data demonstrates that students will continue to benefit from counseling and mentoring services from LEA staff and collaborative agencies.  Areas of student need include substance and alcohol abuse; gang involvement; participation in acts of violence and criminal activity; truancy from school; socialization; and emotional wellness concerns.  The LEA will continue to partner with collaborative agencies and utilize appropriate staff to address areas of need.  In addition, the lack of parent involvement/participation is comparable to the perception students have of their parents’ lack of involvement in their schooling.  The LEA plans to continue to collaborate and focus on increasing parent participation through outreach services and other efforts to facilitate increased involvement.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
20102070000000|Madera County Superintendent of Schools|6|The LEA administered a school climate survey in fall 2018.  This survey measured student perception of school safety and connectedness.   The current school population is 80% male, 20% female, 85% Hispanic, 5% Native American or African American, and 10% White.  From the students surveyed, 83% reported feeling safe at school or they do not feel unsafe.  In addition, 90% of students agreed or definitely agreed they felt respected by teachers.  Overall, 77% of students surveyed reported that teachers have high standards for students.    Analysis of the data demonstrates that students will continue to benefit from counseling and mentoring services from LEA staff and collaborative agencies. Areas of student need include substance and alcohol abuse counseling; gang intervention training; stopping acts of violence and criminal activity; decreasing truancy from school; and social emotional wellness education. Academic counselors have worked diligently to screen students to determine if they meet California state high school requirements, since many students have not made adequate progress toward graduation, as there incarceration has affected the credits earned at their home schools.  The LEA will continue to collaborate with outside agencies and utilize appropriate staff to address areas of need.  In addition, the lack of parent involvement and participation is comparable to the perception students have of their parents’ lack of concern for their schooling. The LEA will continue to collaborate and focus on increasing parent participation through outreach services and other efforts to facilitate increased involvement.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
20652430000000|Madera Unified|6|Madera Unified School District is dedicated to ensuring a positive, engaging and supportive school culture and climate. Our efforts are focused on decreasing behavior incidents, increasing in student attendance and improving academic achievement, by creating a safe, stable, supportive environment in which all students can excel. The Panorama Student Survey was administered to fifth through tenth graders as its local performance indicator to measure the perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Over 7,200 students in grade 5-10 participated in the survey.  Panorama’s student survey has four topical areas:  school belonging, school climate, school engagement, and school safety.  Additionally, 1,000 parents participated in the Panorama Parent Survey which focused on school climate and safety.  The data from this survey was shared at our district pre-service leadership academy to assist with planning for 2019/20.  Results of elementary, middle and high school students participating in this survey indicate that 48% of 5th grade students, compared to 21% of 6th-10th grade students, feel invested or engaged in their school.  A significant finding of the survey was the response by students at all levels and parents that they feel safe at school most of the time.  62% fifth graders, 52% of sixth-tenth graders and 61% of parents and/or guardians responded favorably that they, or their children, were safe at school, however both student groups are a decline from the 2017/18 school year.  The perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of each school declined 6% to a positive rating of 57%.  57% of fifth grade students, 38% of sixth-tenth grade students and 72% of parents/guardians had a positive perception of school climate.  Student survey results related to School Belonging indicate that student perceptions of connectedness is an area of concern for our district as the overall favorable rating in grades 6-10 is at 40%, and students in fifth grade had an overall favorable rating of 61%; both were down 3% from the 2017/18 school year.  As for a grade level breakdown, the favorable rate starts to decrease from 6th grade and onward. The following are favorable ratings by grade level: 5th grade (64%), 6th grade (46%), 7th grade (42%), 8th grade (42%), 9th grade (36%), and 10th grade (33%). For subgroups based on ethnicity, 40% of Hispanic students in grades 6-10 responded favorably compared to 38% of white students and 44% of African American students.  Hispanic students in grade 5 were at 62% compared to 57% for whites and 64% for African Americans.|2019-10-22|Madera Unified continues their commitment to provide a safe and healthy learning environment for all students served by the district and building strong relationships between students, staff, parents and our community. With this goal in mind, the district piloted a multi-tiered system of supports (MTSS) with three sites in 2018/19 to assist schools with building tiered levels of support behaviorally and social-emotionally, with the intent to add ten schools in 2019/20, nine in 2020/21 and nine more in 2021/22.  MUSD implement Positive Behavioral Interventions and Support (PBIS) with a district-wide aim of increasing school safety and belonging by addressing issues at its root and mitigating recurrences of behavioral problems through effective interventions.  At the beginning of the 2019/20 school year, the district developed the Department of School Culture and Climate to work alongside Health and Wellness, Student Services and Special Education departments to continue building and implementing multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS) to embrace all students in a positive social emotional environment. The district will continue to provide opportunities for engagement and grow student leadership and voice at all sites. Social Emotional Learning (SEL) campaigns are in effect across all K-8 classrooms in the district, and all sites have access to tier three mental health support.|Met|2019
30665890000000|Magnolia Elementary|6|Magnolia Elementary School District administers an annual school climate survey to students in grades 4-6.  January 2019 administration of the survey included over 1400 students from all District schools, and yielded the following findings:   84% of students reported that they feel that their school is safe 77% of students report that help is readily available when they need it 94% of students report that it is very important for them to attend school every day 94% of students report that students in the school are kind to each other, 43% responding with the highest rating, and 51% with a moderate rating.    While these findings reflect a high level of positive attitudes among students related to school, they also reveal an ongoing need to strengthen our Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS), as well as cultivating social emotional competencies and student skills in the area of collaboration, problem solving, and conflict management.  Last year, Magnolia School District has adopted the Second Step Social-Emotional Learning program for implementation in all district schools at all grade levels.   A district-wide “Kindness” initiative will also serve to further strengthen this area.  A District Intervention Process Task Force has been formed to conduct a needs assessment and strengthen service delivery and progress monitoring for both academic and behavioral supports.  While these efforts are underway, further development is needed to ensure more consistent implementation of the Second Step program.  Assessments and resources for providing more intensive interventions to support students with behavior needs are also being developed.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19101996119945|Magnolia Science Academy|6|Annually, MSA-1 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-1 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-1 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. In 2019-20, 100% of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 75% on the eight topics of the survey, with a rating of 66% on Topic 3 (Safety) and a rating of 56% on Topic 4 (Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness). Facility-Our new building will allow for more classroom space. Teachers will have their own classrooms and will not have to share space  with other teachers.  Quality of Food- We will have a different food vendor for next year.  Sports- We are now part of California interscholastic Federation (CIF) Sports League. This will provide more athletic opportunities for our students to participate in sports and apply for scholarships. Safety-We are hiring an additional Security guard to monitor the hallways and the outside of the school.|2019-05-19|Met Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-1 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-1 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19101990115212|Magnolia Science Academy 2|6|Annually, MSA-2 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-2 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-2 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The student and parent survey responses expressed concerns which placed a significant emphasis on bullying.  To help counterbalance this concern, MSA-2 launched a schoolwide PBIS (Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports) program this year in partnership with LACOE.  During this program, students have been placed into four houses who compete for positive recognition and team points related to excellent behavior expectations being met, as well as during other team activities.  Teachers are also assigned to houses to support and compete for rewards.  The team branded “Be RAD” as the motto for the schoolwide behavioral expectations which stands for “Be Respectful Attentive and Dependable”.  This expectation has been reinforced with weekly videos made by the ASB student government elected stakeholders and which are shared with the full students during their PBIS Team time during Advisory and SSR classes each week.  Data is compiled related to each house and shared with all students during weekly announcements on the PA system as well as displayed on a bulletin board for all students and parents to view.  Students, staff and parents have all expressed positive results thus far related to the decreased incidents of bullying which have occurred as a result of this intervention.   To support students’ concern about a lack of school safety, this year, we implemented a walkie talkie system for a more efficient communication between school administration and supervision staff.  Additionally, we placed large banners in front of the school on the Victory Blvd. entrance to school to help block the visibility of the students at the entrance to campus from the outside passers by and increase students’ privacy and sense of security.  Further, we implemented a monthly K9 search calendar to help increase student safety related to banned substances on campus.   Moreover, we submitted a proposal to our MPS Board of Directors which was approved granting us the ability to expand school surveillance cameras to include a video monitoring system inside classrooms in collaboration with LAUSD and LACOE.|2019-05-09|MET Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-2 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-2 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19647330115212|Magnolia Science Academy 2|6|Annually, MSA-2 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-2 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-2 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The student and parent survey responses expressed concerns which placed a significant emphasis on bullying.  To help counterbalance this concern, MSA-2 launched a schoolwide PBIS (Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports) program this year in partnership with LACOE.  During this program, students have been placed into four houses who compete for positive recognition and team points related to excellent behavior expectations being met, as well as during other team activities.  Teachers are also assigned to houses to support and compete for rewards.  The team branded “Be RAD” as the motto for the schoolwide behavioral expectations which stands for “Be Respectful Attentive and Dependable”.  This expectation has been reinforced with weekly videos made by the ASB student government elected stakeholders and which are shared with the full students during their PBIS Team time during Advisory and SSR classes each week.  Data is compiled related to each house and shared with all students during weekly announcements on the PA system as well as displayed on a bulletin board for all students and parents to view.  Students, staff and parents have all expressed positive results thus far related to the decreased incidents of bullying which have occurred as a result of this intervention.   To support students’ concern about a lack of school safety, this year, we implemented a walkie talkie system for a more efficient communication between school administration and supervision staff.  Additionally, we placed large banners in front of the school on the Victory Blvd. entrance to school to help block the visibility of the students at the entrance to campus from the outside passers by and increase students’ privacy and sense of security.  Further, we implemented a monthly K9 search calendar to help increase student safety related to banned substances on campus.   Moreover, we submitted a proposal to our MPS Board of Directors which was approved granting us the ability to expand school surveillance cameras to include a video monitoring system inside classrooms in collaboration with LAUSD and LACOE.|2019-05-09|MET Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-2 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-2 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19101990115030|Magnolia Science Academy 3|6|Annually, MSA-3 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-3 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-3 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Student: 59% Family: 91% Staff: 72%|2019-10-17|WRITE HERE YOUR FINDINGS OF STUDENT SURVEY in 2018-19 (HIGHEST, LOWEST AREAS, … For example;) In 2018-19, 83.0% of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 63% on the eight topics of the survey, with a rating of 62% on Topic 3 (Safety) and a rating of 60% on Topic 4 (Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness). WRITE HERE YOUR REFLECTIONS OF THE STUDENT SURVEY FINDINGS, WHAT ACTIONS ARE YOU PLANNING TO IMPLEMENT TO ADDRESS THEM (NEXT STEPS). We will have a student council and a representative from each grade and they can meet with administrators to discuss items that matter to them to enhance our satisfaction rating.|Met|2019
19647330117622|Magnolia Science Academy 4|6|Annually, MSA-4 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-4 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-4 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. WHAT DO YOU LIKE BEST ABOUT YOUR SCHOOL? (GLOWS) Our students feels supported by their teachers and enjoy that we are a small school.  The staff is committed to our students. They also appreciate that they are able to form closer bonds with our students due to our size. Our families like that we are a small school and that our students are able to get personalized attention and support.  The fact that we are a small school will most likely not change for the upcoming school year,  so that will not change for us.  The objective is for us to remain focused on building relationships with our students that will support and facilitate a better sense of belonging for all. When there are connections, learning increases.  According to Rita Pierson, “Children will not learn from you if they do not like you.  WHAT DO YOU LIKE LEAST ABOUT YOUR SCHOOL? (GROWS) All stakeholder groups expressed concerns around discipline, rules and uniforms. There have been staffing changes made to assist with discipline and ensure that rules are followed and applied with equity.  *In 2018-19, 80.7% of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 63% on the eight topics of the survey, with a rating of 62% on Topic 3 (Safety) and a rating of 60% on Topic 4 (Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness). We will revisit our policies around classroom management systems and will support our teachers by sending them to PD’s on classroom management.  We will revisit our supervision schedule to ensure consistent and adequate coverage.|2019-05-09|Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-4 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-4 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19101990137679|Magnolia Science Academy 5|6|Annually, MSA-5 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-5 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-5 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  In 2018-19, 99.6% of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 72% on the four topics of the survey, with a high rating of 81% on Climate of Support for Academic Learning and our lowest rating of 66% on Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness.    We will continue to push to have a high level of participation while implementing the same strategies that helped our survey data improve amongst students and work with our students, families, and staff to improve the areas where the data was not as strong as the other topic areas.|2019-05-09|Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are the areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-5 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses.  MSA-5 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey, students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness.  Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19647330117648|Magnolia Science Academy 6|6|Annually, MSA-6 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-6 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions. MSA-6 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. In 2018-19, 100% of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 70% on the eight topics of the survey, with a rating of 78% on Topic 1 (Climate of Support for Academic Learning) and a rating of 63% on Topic 4 (Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness). Our surveys reflected that students feel the greatest area of need is the improvement of school extra curricular activities and the quality of school food. There is no art and music classes in our regular school hours. However, we offer them as after school clubs. Additionally, students expressed the need for more sport activities (tournaments and games) and more fun projects/homework. Students also mentioned about better meal options for lunch.  In order to address these areas of needs, our school added some fun clubs for our after school program and established some soccer games with our sister school MSA-4. Teachers were informed about assigning more fun projects for their classes and using some online resources like Kahoot and Brain Pop. Regarding the school food, we already informed Schools in Action company to look into various lunch vendors for the best quality and healthy food for 2019-20 school year.|2019-05-09|Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-6 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-6 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19647330117655|Magnolia Science Academy 7|6|Annually, MSA-7 conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 3-5, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-7 disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-7 strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Student needs addressed more with additional support programs. Staff and Parent overall approval is within the high percentile. Art and STEM collaboration was built in 2018-2019 school year.  We will continue to address some areas of need such as: Facility improvement (sand, IT, etc.) Bathroom and cafeteria Continue developing and training PBIS implementation for all staff Sports and music programs Continue refinement and communication of safety procedures  In 2018-19, 99% of our 3rd grade to 5th grade students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 75% on the four  topics of the survey, with a rating of 82% on Topic 1 (Climate of Academic support) and a rating of 77 % on Topic 2 (Knowledge and fairness of Discipline), and a rating of 65 % on Topic 3 (Safety) and a rating 76%Topic 4(Sense of belonging),Whereas 89%  answered the question positively to the question of “Overall, I am satisfied and would recommend this school to other students.”  The principal will create a plan and work with the Home Office on improvement of the facilities by the end of June.  IT issues will be addressed during spring break. Trainings for staff and assemblies for students on PBIS during summer in-service Plan for a music program this summer; explore fundraising options in August Work with the community to increase safety around the campus; communicate safety rules (driving, signs, etc.)     with stakeholders  Our teachers are trained on how to promote growth mindset during the summer training. Our teachers are also trained on implementation of PBIS.|2019-05-09|Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-7 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-7 uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
19647330122747|Magnolia Science Academy Bell|6|Annually, MSA Bell conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-8, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA Bell disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA Bell strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness.   GREATEST PROGRESS: 1. Students - Safety 7 percentile point increase and ranks in the 60th-79th percentile compared to others in the CORE District dataset  2. Families - Climate of support for academic learning has a favorable percentage of 96% and ranks in the 60th-79th percentile compared to others in the CORE District dataset   3. Teachers & Staff - Overall school experience has increased by 20 percentile points compared to the prior school year  GREATEST NEEDS: 1. Students - Sense of Belonging/Connectedness is the least favorable at 67% ( 60th-79th percentile compared to others in the CORE District dataset) 2. Families - Climate of support for academic learning has a favorable percentage of 96% and ranks in the 60th-79th percentile compared to others in the CORE District dataset   3. Teachers & Staff - Overall school experience has increased by 20 percentile points compared to the prior school year  Suggestions and further development in the area of climate are listed below: 1. Redesigning advisory courses to best serve student groups 2. Continual development in utilizing data to inform instruction 3. Design of schoolwide and grade level behavior expectation matrices  4. Vary recognitions and excitement around successes for all stakeholders|2019-05-09|Upon analysis of the stakeholder responses, the following was collected as ‘glows’ for our learning community:  1. Students - Friendships; Caring Teachers; Sports Teams and Facilities; Muffins  2. Families - Staff members attentive to the needs of students; High-quality academic education; School Discipline Structure and Culture of the school; and Communication through various forms 4. Teachers & Staff - Support from administration team; Academic freedom; and Welcoming environment that feels like home   Upon analysis of the stakeholder responses, the following was collected as ‘grows’ for our learning community:  1. Students - Student disruption; Teacher quality; Summit Learning; Uniform 2. Families - Cafeteria food; Uniform; School traffic; Co-Location; Student behavior 3. Teachers & Staff - Student disruption and discipline; High turnover rate; School Activities; Substitutes  Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. Furthermore, the data sets provide important information to actively identify, plan, and develop action plans centered on increasing the student learning experience and closing the achievement gap.|Met|2019
37683380109157|Magnolia Science Academy San Diego|6|Annually, MSA-San Diego conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 6-8, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-San Diego disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-San Diego strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  In 2018-19, 89.2 % of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 53% on the eight topics of the survey., with a rating of 54% on Topic 3 (Safety) and a rating of 47% on Topic 4 (Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness). Our approval rating and sense of belonging rate  for students decreased   compared to last year. Based on the free responses the main reason for the decrease is the temporary behavior point system .One of our goals for our students is to provide a learning environment where student learn skills to become independent learners. Based on student survey results the highest approval rates are “overall school experience ” and “Climate of Support for Academic Learning”. These results attest that we are on the right path.  MSA-San Diego also analyzes open-ended questions to further understand our students’ perceptions and strives to improve their perceptions of school safety and connectedness.Based on the student feedback we started piloting a new MTSS allignes positive behavior point system with rewards.|2019-05-09|Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-San Diego uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-San Diego uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
30768930130765|Magnolia Science Academy Santa Ana|6|Annually, MSA-Santa Ana conducts the CORE Districts survey instrument to students in grades 3-12, analyzes survey results such as participation rates and average approval rates for each topic and question on the survey, documents our findings (e.g., greatest progress and needs, comparisons with the prior year and CORE district results) and shares the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings. MSA-Santa Ana disaggregates the results by grade and student group and also uses open-ended questions to further understand students’ perceptions.  MSA-Santa Ana strives to improve our students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Students in Elementary like their teachers and all the STEAM related activities that take place in their school. Students in Secondary also like their teachers and their college counselor. The students enjoy their AP classes and PE. Additionally, students in secondary like having small class sizes, the friends that they’ve made and the pizza hut they get for lunch once a month! The Elementary students like least the food and not having enough area to play or a permanent playground. The students also reported that there are mean comments/name calling/bad words happening in school. The Secondary students strongly dislike the school food, the crowded hallways, the restrictions to bathroom usage and having multiple Spanish teachers this year.  In 2018-19, 93.6 % of our students participated in the survey and their responses provided an average approval rating of 66% on the eight topics of the survey, with a rating of 60% on Topic 3 (Safety) and a rating of 52% on Topic 4 (Sense of Belonging / School Connectedness). The Elementary students suggested that we offer better food,they are happy with our new  playground, and more sports. The Secondary students suggested better food, having more sports because of our brand new  gym. Additionally, the students suggested that we revisit our teacher contracts because they would not like to see any teacher leaving in the middle of the year.  Lastly, students suggested that the school have stricter sanctions for some students that display repetitive negative behaviors. To address these issues, as we did last year we will have a follow up meeting with the lunch company to minimize the complaints of the school lunch.   To develop our athletic program we are planning sports programs during the school day, as well as  after school.|2019-05-09|Stakeholder voices (i.e., voices of our students, families, staff, and other school community members) play a powerful role in helping us learn how to improve our teaching, leadership, and other school practices. Surveys have been the primary means of collecting student, family, and staff opinions about what we are doing great and should keep doing, and what are areas for improvement so we can continue to provide our students with the best quality education. MSA-1 uses an online platform to provide students, families, and staff with groups of questions that measure their perceptions of teaching and learning, as well as their perceptions of school climate and students’ own strengths and weaknesses. MSA-Santa Ana uses the CORE survey instrument for school climate indicators which include the following four topics for students, families, and staff: Topic 1: Climate of Support for Academic Learning; Topic 2: Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms; Topic 3: Safety; Topic 4: Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness). In a separate survey students are also asked questions in additional four topics which include indicators for social-emotional competencies: Topic 5: Growth Mindset; Topic 6: Self-Efficacy; Topic 7: Self-Management; Topic 8: Social Awareness. Annually, we analyze survey results and share the results and findings with our stakeholders during LCAP information and feedback meetings and regular board meetings.|Met|2019
13631720000000|Magnolia Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
31668940138081|Maidu Virtual Charter Academy|6|Because 2018-2019 was our first year as Maidu Virtual Charter Academy, we did not conduct a California Healthy Kids Survey.  Also, because we are an independent school, much of the questions would not apply.  However, through our internal review of student interactions, we have found that are students feel supported and trust the advisors with whom they work.  Many of our students meet with their advisor on a weekly basis to access their individual supports.  Our counselor is also available to help our students. We continue to look for ways to engage our students more effectively and help remove barriers from students.  One of the constant struggles for some of our students is weekly completion of work.  We will continue to solicit input from our parents and students on how we are meeting the needs of students and where we can improve.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
07100740114470|Making Waves Academy|6|With implementation of LCFF and in accordance to Education code, all LEAs and schools must administer a student school climate survey at least every other year. During academic year 2018-19, Making Waves Academy (MWA) administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in 5th-12th grades to assess school climate and develop an action plan to address areas in need of improvement. The California Healthy Kids school climate index scores reported in the following paragraphs include 5th-12th grade survey results. Although all grade levels participated, three different grade-level surveys were administered to address developmental appropriateness and continuity with previously administered modules. 74% of 5th-6th graders, 90% of 7th-8th graders and 80% of 9th-12th graders participated in the AY 2018-19 survey administration. The School Climate Index (SCI) provides a state normed, school-level description of several factors that are known to influence learning success in schools. Scores on the SCI are based on student CHKS data. SCI scores can range from 100 to 500, with higher scores representing more positive school climates. During the 2015-2017 period, the average SCI score for all schools in California was 300. MWA’s Upper School SCI reported at 273 while Middle School was at 255 for the 18-19 academic year. Although there was a small drop in SCI score for the MWA’s Upper School compared to the 15-16 academic year, the middle school was able to maintain an equal SCI compared to the same reporting period. MWA has increased its scores in the areas of low violence and overall substance use. In 2018-19 the Middle School significantly increased its scores from 182 to 250 in the areas of low physical emotional violence victimization as compared to the previous reporting periods. Additionally, from the 2016-17 to 2018-19 academic years, the Upper School showed increased scores in low substance use at school with a previous score of 246 to 293 for the 18-19 AY.  These increases may be attributed to the interventions that were implemented during these time periods, such as Restorative Justice Practices and increased social-emotional supports. Both MWA’s Upper and Middle School have identified an area of growth as “Opportunities for Meaningful Participation”. According to the CHKS results, Middle School reported a SCI subscale score of 229, while the Upper School reported a subscale score of 273 pertaining to the area of Overall Supports and Engagement.|2019-01-31|It is important to note that for the last two years MWA has experienced transitions including an expansion of school campus, which led to a temporary moratorium of various co-curricular activities. In order to address these findings, MWA has begun implementing interventions to encourage student participation and school-wide connectedness, including: strategically developing a community building calendar at the Middle School level, which is exercised daily throughout homeroom participation and weekly culminating experiences. Additionally, Upper school is utilizing restorative practices such as classroom circles in advisory (Upper School’s homeroom) to enhance community building opportunities, as well as the facilitation of socio-emotional peer groups. Both Upper and Middle school will continue to re-integrate co-curricular activities such as student clubs on campus.|Met|2019
26736920000000|Mammoth Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in 2017 and was just administered again (results not yet available) in October 2019.  Some representative data from the survey results indicated: - School Connectedness 51% -Academic Motivation 68% -Caring Adult Relationships 49% -High Expectations 57% While 90% of our students reported feeling safe at school, which shows the confidence our students had that they were safe and comfortable in the school environment, only 16% responded positively to the questions related to "meaningful participation". While only 39% said that students were well-behaved, 63% said that students were treated fairly when school rules were broken.   In 2017, only 4% of the overall student respondees said that they had used an "e-cigarette". We believe these numbers to be higher, as our new CHKS survey may indicate. Vaping is an increasingly significant issue in our secondary schools and we are exploring multiple ways to address it, including disciplinary action, counseling, health-related interventions and community advocacy. Through diligent work of the teachers, staff and administrators in the district, attendance rates and chronic absence rates have improved dramatically in the past year. Although more indirect, attendance is a measure of school culture. We have noticed that student attendance is directly related to increasing rates of school connection and success.|2019-10-24|California Healthy Kids Survey data is not available disaggregated except by gender, so we are exploring ways of seeking more input from all students on school culture in the coming year. We give the California Healthy Kids Survey Data to students, staff and parents every two years. In addition, students, staff and parents are regularly engaged in processes designed to gather feedback about our school and district climate.|Met|2019
23655730000000|Manchester Union Elementary|6|California Healthy Kids survey will be conducted in Spring of 2019-20.  Local measure of student involvement show that students are engaged and learning: 100% participation in Poetry workshops, Enrichment classes and Author's Tea writings, 50% of 6th-8th graders on Honor Roll and 33% on Principal's List. The District continues to maintain 0 suspensions or expulsions.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19753330000000|Manhattan Beach Unified|6|Maintaining a positive school climate in which students, parent, teachers, and staff feel safe and connected is a top priority for MBUSD. In recent years, programs and practices that address school safety and social-emotional wellness have become an integral part of our educational community. In 2018-2019, the MBUSD Board of Trustees adopted a Social & Emotional Learning Framework to guide our efforts. The framework incorporates skills and competencies as identified by CASEL and the CDE. All schools are in various stages of PBIS implementation and use data from school climate questions for all stakeholders in its annual LCAP survey. Additionally, students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). These measures help inform us of the effectiveness of our efforts.  MBUSD 2019 CHKS (high or moderate) Averages: • School Connectedness scale score = 80% Elementary and 74% Secondary   • Parent Involvement scale score = 78% Elementary and 44% Secondary       • Academic Motivation scale score = 90% Elementary and 74% Secondary        Personalized learning is the lens through which MBUSD educators approach our work. We define the five elements of personalized learning as: 1. Know the Learner 2. Voice and Choice 3. Flexibility of Environment, Groups, and Mindset 4. Data Informed Practice 5. Integration of Digital Tools  Overall, the majority of stakeholders perceive MBUSD as a safe and connected school environment. Our LCAP survey data show that 81% of parents believe ours to be a good or excellent physically safe environment. In regards to emotional safety, the parent response is 76%. We remain committed to continuous growth in building an even stronger school climate.  We believe that the programs, policies, procedures, and practices adopted and implemented through this lens help foster a safe organizational climate that addresses the needs of our stakeholders.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
39685930000000|Manteca Unified|6|MUSD administered a survey structured by Hanover Research in the Spring of 2019 which yielded results from 2,429 students, 727 parents and 749 staff members. Questions included perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Analysis of responses indicated that 57% of students feel safe at school.  Fifty-two percent of student respondents indicated that they feel comfortable talking to school staff, and 72% of students say they are encouraged by staff on a regular basis.  Sixty-four percent of parents of English learners believed their child received enough personal attention while 66% of parents of students in special education believed the same. When asked if there were enough after school activities, 66% of English learner parents, 45% of special education parents, and  100% of foster parents responded affirmatively.  All groups agree that bullying continues to be a problem.  Manteca USD also utilizes suspension rate and expulsion rate to measure students’ sense of safety and connectedness. In 2017-2018 (the latest year data is available), Manteca USD’s suspension rate dropped to 5.2% from 6.5% and the expulsion rate was 0.16%, up from 0.1%. While suspension and expulsion rates are comparable with our county, they are still high when compared to state averages.  Results indicate that a majority of MUSD students feel safe and connected to their school sites, but our suspension rates continue to be high. Key findings from student subgroup analysis found that students who are English learners are generally more satisfied with their school than other students. Students who identify as Black/African American are less likely to respond to survey items favorably.  Overall, students receiving special education services have few differences with their peers in most categories asked about, and there are almost no practical differences in how students who participate in the free/reduced price lunch feel about their school/district.   MUSD continues to act with an equity focus on ensuring that all students work to achieve grade level standards, feel safe, and are supported to realize individual success.|2019-10-08|The California Healthy Kids Survey was not administered in 2018-2019, but we will administer it again in 2019-2020.  The results from the Hanover Survey will now be used as baseline data for topics such as school climate and parent engagement.|Met|2019
04614990000000|Manzanita Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th grade students in the 2017-2018 academic year and will be administered again during the 2019-2020  academic year. The results of the 2017-2018 survey indicated that a 76% of 6th grade students, 88% of 7th grade students, and 55% of 8th grade students feel safe at school. 78% of 5th grade students reported that they feel safe all of the time and most of the time. The average of all grade levels is 74.25 of % of students felt safe at school. 81% of 6th graders, 85% of 7th graders, 70% of 8th graders felt "a part of the school". 74% of 5th graders feel like they are part of the school all of the time and most of the time. An average of 77.5% of the students feel part of the school. 57% of 6th grade students, 100% of 7th grade, and 55% of Seventh Grade students feel they have a caring adult at school. 83% of 5th grade students feel they have a caring adult most and all of the time. An average of 73.75% feel there is a caring adult they connect with at school. A Panorama Education survey was administered during the 2018-2019 academic year to gain more insight into our students, staff, faculty and stakeholders with regards to the culture and climate of our school.  The Panorama survey was separated into grades 3-5 and 6-8. Grades 3-5 perception of the overall social and learning climate was 80% favorable and 6-8 was 68% favorable. Both groups of students felt very encouraged by the superintendent/principal and teachers with 84% of grades 3-5 feeling that they have great connection to staff and grades 6-8 students at 64% . Students are very interested in class and feel that teachers are very interested in their success, academically and socially. The overall results of the Panorama survey were similar to the results of the Healthy Kids Survey  administered in 17-18, revealing that MESD does a great job of creating a climate that helps all students feel welcomed and encouraged to do their best as well as being connected to the school. The survey did show that student engagement and how attentive and invested students are in class is an area for improvement. MESD will continue to offer professional development in engagement strategies as well as engaging curriculum.  MESD will also revise the survey to ensure students are able to understand the questions and respond in a way that will help to provide an accurate picture of the school climate. MESD will continue to use Nurtured Heart and Second Step curriculum along with PBIS to create a positive school climate.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
07617966118368|Manzanita Middle|6|Manzanita is a small school with a very safe school campus and classrooms. Teachers and student government work to ensure a joyful school experience complete with athletic competition and performance opportunities. Students participate in annual surveys to provide guidance on improving the learning environment.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
42692290116921|Manzanita Public Charter|6|DATA results from both surveys and meetings show that the LEA is significantly meeting the needs of the school community.  90-95% of all stakeholders report great satisfaction with the academic progress of scholars and express approval of school discipline and social emotional support measures.   Stakeholders do, however, continue to express concerns about the need for facilities improvements as well as improved nutritional opportunities for students.  The LEA compared 2017-2019 survey results and discovered that a safe/secure campus was the top issue of concern for all three years.  To that end, Manzanita will be installing a safety fence during the summer of 2020 to help address this concern. The school is also working to update the school-wide safety plan and hired a day facilities worker, who also has his EMT license, for emergency care on campus if needed. Stakeholders continue to express a desire to address playground/bus bullying on campus.  The LEA continues to partner with "The Soulle Shoppe" on its school wide Peacemaker and "I MESSAGE" program.  In addition, the school has recently adopted a school-wide SED program designed to focus on character development and team building for all scholars and staff.  The LEA plans more a more comprehensive alignment of the SED curriculum with school wide events such as trimester awards programs.  Manzanita has also partnered with the Santa Barbara County SELPA office and has hired a behavioral therapist to help train the entire staff on de-escalation strategies to help keep all scholars safe on campus.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
12629350000000|Maple Creek Elementary|6|All students, parents and staff were surveyed during the 18-19 school year for reporting in the fall of 2019.  Data from LCAP: April 2019 Student and Parent surveys: Parents are satisfied with the quality of education; Students are excited about various academic programs and enjoy projects and art; Students enjoy reading and want more physical activity. Students and parents appreciate transportation and expressed that the bus is critical for attendance; Students and parents feel safe at the school. The staff responded to the desire and need for more physical activity by adjusting the daily schedule to include frequent short movement breaks and integrating more movement activities into academic learning.|2019-10-11||Met|2019
15636100000000|Maple Elementary|6|Overall we feel that there is still significant progress to be made in meeting the needs of all of our families. However, based on our parent surveys that actions that Maple School District is taking are making a positive impact and we are making positive progress toward meeting the needs of our students, our community and our parents. There were only three responses on our surveys that received less than a 90% approval or positive rating (aggrees or strongly agrees), one related to students receiving a healthy and nutritious lunch (83.9% agree or strongly agree)  and the other about students receiving rewards and consequences appropriately and consistently (89.3% agree or strongly agree), and Maple offers high quality homework help and tutoring (83.9% agree or strongly agree). While some parent comments do reflect a need for change, and we are very open to exploring options, there is an overwhelming positive response to the work that our staff is doing and the experience that our students are having here at Maple. In the future we will definitely be refining our homework and tutoring support, this year we added an Expanded Learning Program after school three days per week, and we are researching our food options since we currently contract out for our food services.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
34674210137950|Marconi Learning Academy|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  99% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  96% reported that they felt connected to the school *  99% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
51714070000000|Marcum-Illinois Union Elementary|6|A local climate survey was given to students in grades third through eighth that provided a valid measure of school (safety and connectedness. The results of this survey were shared at the March 6, 2019 staff meeting (March 11, and May 13, 2019 Marcum-Illinois EUSD School Board meetings, and also the spring LCAP Advisory/Site Council meeting. Findings from this survey indicated that 92.5%, of students felt safe at Marcum-Illinois School. In addition, 82.5% of students feel that bullying is not a problem at the school while 17.5% feel it is a problem. These results indicated that the school's discipline program have created a safe environment, however more education and structure need to be implemented regarding bullying. Structures to be implemented during the 2019/20 school year are more professional development and the review and adoption of an updated anti-bullying program.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
48705816116255|Mare Island Technology Academy|6|The following summary comes from excerpts from the 2018 - 2019 SCAI (School Climate Assessment Instrument) as it relates to student perceptions:  There is an increase between 2017 - 2018 and 2018 - 2019 in positive student perceptions.  Although students think that teachers care about them, some are using strategies that are not engaging them as learners.   There is a need for greater use of a range of instructional models including inquiry, PBL, and more cooperative learning.  As a result of this survey, we started to incorporate Instructional Rounds last year in order to get a better idea of the range of instructional strategies that teachers employ.  As a result of these rounds, we are striving to increase the use of lesson planning, academic language, and high-engagement strategies.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
31750850117879|Maria Montessori Charter Academy|6|A general summary of our most recent climate survey would indicate that 1) kids felt safe at school, 2) they liked their teachers and felt that they were receptive to them and helped them, 3) for some of them, they were not getting regular breakfast or even bringing a lunch to school.  In the past year, we have made getting a hot lunch program off the ground a primary priority, and it is in place this year.  Our eventual goal is to be able to offer breakfast as well.|2019-09-16||Met|2019
15636280000000|Maricopa Unified|6|1. DATA:  Each year, Maricopa Unified School District conducts a student survey for ALL Third through Twelve grade students. The District superintendent also conducted personal input sessions for all Third-Twelve grade classrooms to gain the students point of view. The following are the Student Survey Results: Q1 Textbooks and learning materials =91.9%, Q2. Safe/Clean School=48.4%, Q3 College and Career Prepared=87.1%, Q4. Teacher(s) makes time to discuss Academic Successes/Needs=83.2%,  Q5. Enjoy School=80.0% Q6. Staff Encouragement=82.2%, Q7. Teachers Make learning understandable =79.5%,  Q8. Trust Teachers/Staff=74.5%, Q9. Common Core State Standards Implementation=70.5%, with a Total Average for all question responses=77.5% .  Key Learnings: All question responses are 70% or above, except for Q2 on safe and clean campus (see addressed below). Most students: enjoy school (80%), believe that our teachers and staff are encouraging to them (82.2%), believe that our school works for their academic needs and successes (83.2%), and trust our teachers to help them be successful (74.5%).  2. MEANING:  No significant desegregated data for any major areas, grade level, gender, or special populations were noted.  Three areas for continued improvement were identified  from our student's point of view. The three areas for improvement are our food service selections, our older campus facility cleanliness and our campus safety.  Improvement comments were made in these area by all grades, gender and populations.   3. USE: The three areas for improvement based on input are our food service selections, our older campus facility cleanliness, and our campus safety. The superintendent met with all Third through Twelve grade students to share improvements being made and hear their concerns and suggestions on how the District could help improve in these three areas. During the 2018-19 school year improvements have been made in food quality for our breakfast and lunch programs, several campus improvement projects have already been completed to support our facility and cleanliness (i.e Painting, Air fresheners in restrooms, Restroom upgrades) and plans are being developed to provide another layer of campus fencing for better security.|2019-10-10|Maricopa Unified School District seeks input from all stakeholders to continuously make improvements for our students. The school climate and culture have drastically improved over the past several years. Per survey results, students, parents and staff feel better and are encouraged with the change in the schools climate. Of course, the District continues to seek even more input for improvements.|Met|2019
21102150000000|Marin County Office of Education|6|We conducted student surveys to determine how connected students were on campus and how relevant they felt learning experiences were - the results are as follows: a. Students report that their learning experiences are relevant to their lives. Quarter 1: 60%, Quarter 3: 83%  b. Students report that they have at least one positive relationship with an adult at school. Quarter 1: 57%, Quarter 3: 97%. c. Students report that they have at least one positive relationship with a student at school. Quarter 1: 73%, Quarter 3: 97%  Social and emotional skills such as self-awareness, self-regulation, self-efficacy, social awareness, and growth mindset are key learning goals for our students. All of our teachers include a social and emotional learning goal as part of their lessons each day and provide feedback to students.  We have invested a considerable amount of time and resources to cultivating a culture of trust and innovation with our staff so that we can work together towards our mission. The results of our culture and climate with staff were overwhelmingly positive as staff are optimistic for the future and have a strong culture of collaboration. We also saw increases in connectedness with students over the year, with 97% of students indicating that they had a strong relationship with an adult on campus. We attribute these positive results to our shift toward restorative and relational practices, investment in our afterschool mentorship program, instructional coaching and professional development, and leadership practices to build trust with staff and students.  Our school’s mission is to empower each other to follow our passions and lead purposeful lives. In order to help students develop their own sense of purpose and belonging, we know we need to increase students’ exposure to college and career opportunities in the community as well as help them develop their networks. Our theory of action is that as students develop their interests, sense of purpose, and belonging, we will be able to make learning more relevant to each student through personalized learning experiences. Our overarching goal this year is: Students will develop a positive image of themselves as community members while learning academic, social and emotional skills; and students will identify a post-secondary goal. Our three priorities to meet this goal are: • Students will develop positive identities as community members as they learn academic, social and emotional skills. Our teachers will continue to use competency based learning as they begin to implement interdisciplinary project-based learning with real world contexts. • Students will be exposed to a wide variety of experiences and each student will develop a post-secondary goal. We will increase students’ exposure to job shadows, internships, and college visits this year to support learning both on and off campus. • Students and their families will access resources and opportunities to support them in achieving their goals.|2019-10-15|Highlights of the fall to spring surveys include: • Our teachers are optimistic for the future and they feel we have a positive working environment.  • Teachers think their colleagues have positive attitudes and are supportive of new initiatives. • Students reported increases in self-awareness in all grades except 12th. • Students reported increases in self-efficacy and curiosity in all grades except 9th. • Students reported slight decreases in growth mindset in all grades except 8th|Met|2019
22102230000000|Mariposa County Office of Education|6|Mariposa County Office of Ed administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in conjunction with Mariposa County Unified School District in the 2017-2018 school year. Results measure the districts progress towards an overall positive school climate and culture keeping the needs of individual children in mind. Because of the calibration of norms by WestEd, the survey developer, overall results can not be compared from 2016 to 2018.   Our scores show great consistency in student connectedness and adult caring relationships on campus. You can see from 5th to 7th than in 9th - 12th these numbers stay fairly consistent. Our area of focus has been on the upswing in substance abuse from 9th - 12th grade. Data shows that 21 % of 9th grade students had used some time of controlled substance within the last 30 days which increased to 53% of 12th grade students.   In an effort to curb this, a grant was written and received to pay for a school resource officer who assists largely with drug and tobacco intervention. This resource officer is available to answer questions and assist students as needed. We also applied for a separate grant and received it that has allowed us to have a TOSA in the position of Student Welfare and Attendance Specialist. This position allows for us to coordinate with outside agencies in an effort to gain students any supports that they may need to fight substance abuse addiction or receive the counseling services they need in order to not go down that path.   The addition of these two new positions is a great asset to our community and we hope that it proves effective in lowering the rate of substance abuse with our students.   We are set to issue our new CHKS in Nov. or Dec. or 2019.   https://calschls.org/reports-data/dashboard/|2019-10-10||Met|2019
22655320000000|Mariposa County Unified|6|MCUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the 2017-2018 school year. Results measure the districts progress towards an overall positive school climate and culture keeping the needs of individual children in mind. Because of the calibration of norms by WestEd, the survey developer, overall results can not be compared from 2016 to 2018.   Our scores show great consistency in student connectedness and adult caring relationships on campus. You can see from 5th to 7th than in 9th - 12th these numbers stay fairly consistent. Our area of focus has been on the upswing in substance abuse from 9th - 12th grade. Data shows that 21 % of 9th grade students had used some time of controlled substance within the last 30 days which increased to 53% of 12th grade students.   In an effort to curb this, a grant was written and received to pay for a school resource officer who assists largely with drug and tobacco intervention. This resource officer is available to answer questions and assist students as needed. We also applied for a separate grant and received it that has allowed us to have a TOSA in the position of Student Welfare and Attendance Specialist. This position allows for us to coordinate with outside agencies in an effort to gain students any supports that they may need to fight substance abuse addiction or receive the counseling services they need in order to not go down that path.   The addition of these two new positions is a great asset to our community and we hope that it proves effective in lowering the rate of substance abuse with our students.   We are set to issue our new CHKS in Nov. or Dec. or 2019.   https://calschls.org/reports-data/dashboard/|2019-10-10||Met|2019
05615720000000|Mark Twain Union Elementary|6|The District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students annually and reports the results to the MTUESD Board in addition to stakeholders. The 2019-19 administration of the survey revealed the following key indicators for school engagement and supports: 65% of 7th Grade respondents and 56% of 8th Grade respondents reported that they strongly agree that they are connected to the school. 78% of 7th Grade and 78% of 8th Grade respondents reported that they were strongly motivated academically. 58% of 7th Grade students and 49% of 8th Grade respondents reported that they strongly agree that they have caring adult relationships at school. 31% of 7th Grade and 29% of 8th Grade respondents reported that they have meaningful participation in their schools.71% of 7th Grade students and 61% of 8th Grade respondents reported that high expectations exist at school. 60% of 7th Grade students and 53% of 8th Grade student perceive that school is safe or very safe. The data demonstrated a need to increase students' perception of their ability to meaningful participate in school. The District saw significant increases in the percentage of positive school connectedness, academic motivation, caring adult relationships and high expectations. This data supports the need for continued implementation of the District-wide PBIS program as outlined in the LCAP to maintain and improve the school climate at both school sites.|2019-10-16|Complete data from the 2018-19 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey for the District may reviewed at the following link: https//calschls.org/reports-data/search-lea-reports/.|Met|2019
49708050105890|Mark West Charter|6|The Climate Survey, which was developed by the school site councils and aligned with the BEST program, a Parent Survey, discipline data and counselor’s data, indicate that students increased access to needed supports at school in the 2018-2019 school year.  There was an increased level of school counseling requested on behalf of students, which appears to be related to the wildfires experienced during the previous school year.  Yet, positive school-wide behavior support systems appear to be working, as instances of bullying behavior did not show an increase.  Schools will continue to effectively use the counseling program (at least one counselor/intern available) and the Building Effective Schools Together school climate framework to maintain a positive school climate.  Given the recurrence of wildfires in October 2019, it is expected to create an increased ongoing school counseling need for students.  Additional counselor interns will be sought during the spring of 2020, in an effort to expand the program to address ongoing student counseling needs.|2019-12-04||Met|2019
49708050000000|Mark West Union Elementary|6|The Climate Survey, which was developed by the school site councils and aligned with the BEST program, a Parent Survey, discipline data and counselor’s data, indicate that students increased access to needed supports at school in the 2018-2019 school year.  There was an increased level of school counseling requested on behalf of students, which appears to be related to the wildfires experienced during the previous school year.  Yet, positive school-wide behavior support systems appear to be working, as instances of bullying behavior did not show an increase.  Schools will continue to effectively use the counseling program (at least one counselor/intern available at schools daily), Second Step violence prevention program, Tool Box program, and the Building Effective Schools Together school climate framework to maintain a positive school climate.  Given the recurrence of wildfires in October 2019, it is expected to create an increased ongoing school counseling need for students.  Additional counselor interns will be sought during the spring of 2020, in an effort to expand the program to address ongoing student counseling needs.|2019-12-04||Met|2019
19647336018063|Marquez Charter|6|Marquez Charter School has been utilizing the School Experience Survey over the past few years that LAUSD has implemented. The percentage of parents completing the survey is 38%; students completing the survey is 41%; staff completing the survey is 46%; and teachers completing the survey is 44%.   Our school’s most recent scores on the questions asked on the School Experience Survey (2018-2019) vary across the different categories:  Overall scores for Customer Service is 87%, Parent Engagement is 90%, and Parent Involvement is 88%.  More specific scores below are: 1. I am a partner with this school in decisions made about my child’s education.  (69%) 2. I feel welcome to participate in this school. (94%) 3. This school encourages me to participate in organized parent groups (councils/committees/parent organizations, etc.). (90%) 4. This school provides me with information (verbal and written) I can understand. (95%) 5. This school informs parents about school activities in different ways (letters, emails, phone calls, posters, flyers, etc.). (97%) 6. This school provides opportunities to help me support my child’s learning. (77%)|2019-11-14||Met|2019
43693936046619|Marshall Lane Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
07617390000000|Martinez Unified|6|Martinez USD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the 2018-19 school year, as it had in the two previous school years, to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. Although not required to give the CHKS annually, MUSD has chosen to do so in order to more carefully monitor and respond to the overall health and safety of our students.  In the category of School Safety, the majority of students in 5th grade surveyed, 82% responded that they “feel safe at school.” This has stayed relatively consistent over the past three years. At the secondary level, we are seeing a steady decline in this category. Over the past three years 11 graders have dropped from 71% agree with the statement “Perceived as Very Safe or Safe” to 54% last year. Grades 7 and 9 have held a consistent percentage of 60-62%.   School connectedness is an area that has a similar trend with 76% of 5th grade students surveyed feeling connected. Once again, we see a downward trend in 11th grade with 47% of student feeling connected at school, this rate was 59% in 2017.  Grades 7 and 9 stay consistent in the 62-63% range. We need to take a closer look at Meaningful Participation as it indicates students are reporting over lower scores, in all grades. Grade 5 shows a downward trend of 44% from 57% in 2017. Similar trends are noted in secondary; Grade 7, 32% from 46 in 2017; Grade 9, 28% from 30% in 2017; and in Grade 11, 18% from 34% in 2017. It is also important to note that there is about a 10% deficit compared to the overall student scores in Grade 11 for our Asian students in both Meaningful Participation 9% and School Connectedness 37%. In looking to improve this sense of connectedness, MUSD continues to explore social-emotional support and have begun a multi-year partnership with the Contra Costa County Office of Education to implement PBIS at our secondary schools. We are also currently evaluating our character education programs and have a number of elementary schools either implementing Character Counts or piloting Choose Love.  All programs have a behavior monitoring or assessment component so that we can track student responsiveness to these programs.  We will continue to administer the CHKS each year as another measure used to determine benefits and district goals.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
49402466051932|Mary Collins Charter School at Cherry Valley|6||||Not Met|2019
49708626051932|Mary Collins Charter School at Cherry Valley|6|Petaluma City Schools has contracted with West Ed to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other school year. The CHKS was last administered at Mary Collins Charter School at Cherry Valley during the 2017-2018 school year. The CHKS will be administered again in the 2019-2020 school year. For the 2017-2018 school year, the school climate measures, as indicated by the CHKS results for Mary Collins Charter School were as follows: 87% of the 7th grade students who participated in the survey reported that they felt a strong sense of school connectedness. 83% of students reported that they feel there is a teacher or some other adult at school who really cares about them. 80% of students reported that they feel safe at school. MCCV will continue to implement Toolbox lessons in all classes to help students develop strong social-emotional skills so that they can better navigate their social relationships and constructively resolve conflicts with peers, teachers, and other adults while at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
58727365830138|Marysville Charter Academy for the Arts|6|MCAA is a 7-12 grade school. We used the Healthy Kids Survey data from students in the 9th grade in order to write this narrative.The Healthy kids Survey is administered to all 7th, 9th, and 11th graders in the district every other year. The latest survey data is from the 2018/19 school year.  The overall survey results were very encouraging. We looked at data concerning school violence and safety, reasons for harassment at school, school performance and engagement, absences, caring adults, expectations, connectedness, academic motivation, and parent involvement.  School violence, victimization, and safety: 82% felt safe or very safe Harassment due to:      1. Race, ethnicity, or national origin: 91% zero times.      2. A physical or mental disability: 94% zero times      3. Gender: 91% zero time      4. Because you are gay or lesbian or someone though you were: 84% zero times  School performance, supports, and engagement:       1. 75% stated they had A's or B's.       2. 99% had mostly C's or higher       3. 89% of students missed 2 days or less of school in the past 30 days.       4. In addition to the survey, 75 students, overall, had perfect attendance last year.  Caring adults in school:       1. 82% of students reported that they were highly or moderately confident that the adults at school cared about them.       2. 90% of students said adults at school had high expectations of them.  94% of 9th graders felt highly or moderately connected to the school.    80% of 9th graders felt highly or moderately academically motivated.  88% of 9th graders felt parent involvement was moderate or high.  Alcohol or Drug Use:      1. 78% of 9th graders never had a full drink of alcohol.      2. 90% of 9th graders never smoked, vaped, ate, or drank marijuana.  The above data reflects an overall healthy student body. Of course, we do strive to maintain or improve these numbers. In order to accomplish this goal, we will continue to offer our students incentives such as perfect attendance rewards, perfect attendance and honor roll assemblies honoring these students, etc. We also plan to continue to hold Bullying Seminars led by our leadership and SWAT ( Students Who Are There) students and continue to focus on positive reinforcement of behaviors, once again, led by these same students. We also feel that offering many clubs and electives provides many ways for our students to feel connected to the school. Performing for each other at lunch and engaging in other fun activities also helps with this.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
58727360000000|Marysville Joint Unified|6|Analysis of the CHKS for the 2018-2019 school year, as well as comparison across results from 2015-2019 yield several trends to address. First, on average, District results have remained fairly level for the past 3 administrations of the CHKS.  There have been slight declines in: School connectedness, Truancy (Positive) and meaningful participation. These findings have been considered by district and site level administration and efforts to improve student and family connect are underway. Through increased communication and partnerships administrators will be evaluated on their ability to increase climate through stakeholder involvement. Academic Motivation, Caring Adult Relationships and Staff having High expectations are all areas that have remained flat. While scores indicate that roughly 70% of students feel that they have support in these areas, MJUSD strives to continue to improve feelings of connectedness and support.  Additionally only about 50% of our surveyed population feels that there is enough parent involvement and upkeep of the school facilities. Disaggregating the data shows that our educational options are having a greater level of success when it comes to engaging students and families in positive ways. Through our PLC model, sites will collaborate to gain best practices in continuing to advance culture and connectedness at all of our sites. Looking at the surveyed population, we notice a decrease in the number of students fighting and seeing weapons on campus, with numbers that are statistically low and suggestive of safe campuses. We see a trend in CHKS scores dropping across the board for our 7th grade students. Site teams from our three junior high locations will be involved in finding ways to increase school climate for the benefit of student learning. Our superintendent has made stakeholder involvement a top priority. Autonomy for the sites in how they accomplish this evaluated task will vary to some degree. However, revitalized PBIS efforts, attendance initiatives and a directive to increase community and business partnerships sets the tone for the expectations of the sites in bettering climate. Professional development around climate topics are being utilized to increase the motivation and practices around engaging all stakeholders in the educational process.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647330126136|Math and Science College Preparatory|6|At Math and Science College Preparatory we take school safety and connectedness very seriously, as such we administer a survey to all students every year. When asked, “At this school I feel safe” 80% of students answered agree or strongly agree. When asked to share comments a student responded, “[My teacher] let's students share out their opinions while keeping the environment safe and controlled.” Another student shared, “[my teacher] cares a lot about our well being, he keeps it real with us, and he shows us that he wants us to succeed.. He makes coming to class and learning an enjoyable experience.”   Regarding connectedness, when asked, “I feel like I am part of this school,”  70% of students answered strongly agree or agree. When asked to share comments a student responded, “He's a very very nice teacher and I wish he could teach me next year. He respects everyone and always believes in everyone.” Students feel safe at school and feel respected and connected with each other and staff.|2019-02-06||Met|2019
19647330137562|Matrix for Success Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
12753820000000|Mattole Unified|6|Results of the California Healthy Kids Survey are reviewed annually by administrators, teaching staff, site councils and the school board and are presented to stakeholders at various meetings throughout the year.  A high percentage of our middle school and high school students report in the survey that they feel close to people at their schools, that they feel a part of their school, that their teachers treat them fairly and that they feel safe at their schools.  Continued implementation of SWPBIS, restorative practices, trauma informed practices, encouragement of a growth mindset for all students and the utilization of Second Step social-emotional curriculum will continue district-wide.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
06616060000000|Maxwell Unified|6|Our most recent DataQuest (2017-18) suspension rate is 9.2% along with a .53 expulsion rate. The suspension rate increased 2.3% and was due to improved discipline at the schools. We continue to work on creating a set of norms and values that focus everyone's attention on what is most important and motivates them to work towards a common purpose. We are implementing character education and anti-bullying/cyberbullying assemblies and programs. We will continue working with Boy's and Girl's Circle and with County Mental Health. We have Implemented a random drug testing program and unlawful contraband searches using trained k9's to help provide a safe productive learning environment at the high school. We are striving to improve our positive awards programs and have earmarked funding for these activities.   November 2018 California Healthy Kids Survey (Results 2017-18 School Year) rated the following percent as strongly agree: Parental Involvement School allows input and welcomes parents’ contributions 50% School encourages me to be an active partner with the school in educating my child 40% School actively seeks the input of parents before making important decisions 30% Parents feel welcome to participate at this school 40% Academic Orientation and Participation School promotes academic success for all students 30% School is a safe place for my child 40% School motivates students to learn 40% School has adults that really care about students 40% School provides opportunities for meaningful student participation 40% Respect and Cultural Sensitivity School treats all students with respect 40% School promotes respect of all cultural beliefs and practices 30% Student Risk Behavior – Large Problem Student alcohol and drug use 30% Harassment or bullying of students 20% Discipline School clearly communicates consequences of breaking rules 40% School enforces school rules equally 30% Facilities School has clean and well-maintained facilities/properties 40%|2019-05-08||Met|2019
13631800000000|McCabe Union Elementary|6|The McCabe Union Elementary School District administered a local climate student survey to 2nd, 4th, 7th and 8th graders and received 390 responses. 80.0% of the students responded they have someone at school that can speak to. 75.1% feel a connection to their school and classmates because they are involved in school activities. 89.4% of students indicated they feel safe at school. 71% stated they look forward to coming to school each day. 97.4% responded their school provides a good education for students.   MUESD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 143 seventh-grade students.  78% responded that they feel a connectedness to school, and 85% perceive school as very safe.  The survey revealed that 29% of seventh-grade students experience chronic sadness / hopelessness and 19% responded that they have considered suicide. Disaggregating the responses to 67% of students perceiving that there are caring adults in school indicates room for improvement in noticing and listening to students.  This year the district introduced a 30-minute homeroom advisory period in 7th and 8th grades.  Teachers will have an opportunity to build relationships with students as they implement Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) strategies.  MUESD has taken numerous measures to promote a safe learning environment. A cornerstone for our district is the PeaceBuilder program for grades K-8. This character-building program is in its 11th year and promotes good citizenship by developing different character traits throughout the year. The district also collaborates with local law enforcement to present information to students on student safety. MUESD is committed to support student supervision and safety through an increased presence of staff on campus. MUESD utilizes handheld radios for communication throughout the campus, a phone system that allows for better communication to ensure student safety, and has installed speakers throughout the campus for better communication. MUESD has cameras on the buses to ensure student safety when riding to school and back home. MUESD implemented the Visitor Management System, Raptor, which scans visitor's ID and checks them through a registry data base. MUESD also implementded Catapult, a web based communication tool to be used in case of an emergency to account for staff and students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
47704090000000|McCloud Union Elementary|6|The CA Healthy Kids Survey does NOT serve our purposes for assessment of school climate because our numbers are too small; last year we had five 7th grade students so our data is not considered statistically significant or confidential.  This is one reason why MES relies on the school-wide survey.  Each spring, McCloud Elementary School surveys students in kindergarten through 8th grade.  The survey addresses the following areas of school climate:  1) social-emotional health, 2) safety, 3) belonging, 4) caring, 5) peer relations/friendships, 6) academics, 7) skills, 8) challenges, 9) academic expectations, 10) report cards, 11) behavior management, 12) fairness, 13) classroom rules, 14) discipline policy, 15) SAFE program, 16) music program, 17) academic support.   Areas of strength as reported in student surveys were the small school environment, teachers/staff, academics, recess, fun, friendly environment, sports, SAFE, mentor program, "everything" and friendships.  Some challenges that students mentioned were students misbehaving in class, bullying, the field trip eligibility policy, and instruction for different learning styles.   Barriers mentioned by many students involved lack of funding for school improvement, specifically money for furniture like chairs and tables. Students expressed that they feel safe and loved by teachers and staff, but still wish some of their friends were nicer.  Many students expressed begin hungry and wanting more food from the nutrition program.  Students expressed the desire to have longer recesses and a more improved playground.  Barriers to most programs at MES are due to lack of funding; however, we are fortunate to have several community groups that donate money and some necessities to students, including money for computers, supplies and donations of clothes, food and presents during the holidays.  In 2019-2020 MES will have additional funds from the CSI grant to provide some of the desired materials that students have requested in surveys (hands on science and computers).  Overall, McCloud Elementary is successful in providing a safe environment for students, effective academic instruction and materials, and excellent food program, a snack program, a strong sports program and diverse enrichment programs.  To address students' concerns about "meanness" or "bullying" the LEA continues to partner with Siskiyou County Domestic Violence for seminars about peer relationships, communication and anti-bullying campaigns.  This year, DARE also returned to MES and peer relations and communication strategies are also included in DARE curriculum.  In addition to those partnerships, the LEA will continue to work with Remi-Vista to address social emotional health through Girls Circle - a program that supports students' mental health.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
15739080000000|McFarland Unified|6|We administered a climate survey in the spring of 2018. The results were shared with the local school board at their meeting in May 2018. Some of the significant results of this survey given to the students are as follows:   * School is clean and in good condition: 62% Strongly Agree or Agree with this statement * Teacher(s) help to make learning understandable at our school by using different ways of presenting the information: 92% Strongly agree or Agree with this statement * The teacher makes time to discuss grades, academic successes, or areas of improvement with the student and/or parent: 93% Strongly agree or Agree with this statement * I look forward to coming to school most days. My school contacts my parents if I am often late or absent from school: 89.4% Strongly Agreed or Agreed with this statement  The results of the survey in general were positive. However it is clear by looking at the percentages that school cleanliness and condition did not garner as much favor as the other questions. Many of our schools are 60 years old or more. We have dedicated significant resources over the past 3 years to beautify these campuses, but realize that there are still many areas that we need to attend to.   The second lowest area was the 4th item listed: “…looking forward to coming to school…” This statement probably  should have been split because it is difficult to determine if the 11% that did not agree did so because they don’t look forward to school or if it is because parents are not called when late or absent. This past year, our high school started using a system that will address the communication aspect of absences, tardies, and when student leave class for some reason.  Students were also asked as a free response: "What else can the school do to help motivate you to succeed?" Common responses included more clubs & activities, a better variety of classes, and mentors and/or extra help. Some specific responses included: Response: "Nothing because the school is already motivating me to improve and succeed in school"  Response: “They can motivate us with having field trips available for those that are succeeding” Response: “What they can do is make more activities so that the students can be motivated”  These results were shared with the principals. At the high school, we have expanded some of our pathways and are looking to add more. Our Junior High is considering expanding to a seven period schedule to offer more electives. Our elementary sites added music this year during the day and after school coding.  We plan to administer the survey again this year and compare the results. Discussion will take place after the comparison to determine next steps.|2019-10-08|All 3 elementary sites have implemented PBIS. Our school that is furthest along in implementation is HES who recently received Silver recognition by the PBIS Coalition. Our high school and junior high have implemented a restorative practices model. Our high and junior high school both have student affairs specialists that work directly with students to improve behaviors and climate.|Met|2019
37683386113211|McGill School of Success|6|McGill conducted a student its school safety survey with students in 2nd-5th grade.   The data reflected many of the reasons families choose McGill and stay even when they move out of the area. Over 90% of our students stated students feel safe and happy at McGill.   Over 95% were able to state the name of an adult they could turn to for help at McGill. The overwhelming stated they liked McGill as their school.  Regarding the question about whether they had ever been bullied, an overwhelming 70% responded affirmatively.  In reviewing these results with students, they expressed that they had been 'bullied' by someone who was mean to them.  Probing further with the legal definition of bullying (on-going, targetted, power struggle), most students recognized they had not truly been bullied, but rather had a peer conflict.  Given their history growing up together (many since preschool), students then shared they like to argue with each other.  Their relationship, one said, was more like cousins or good friends who sometimes get upset at each other than an actual bully.  When asked what they would like to see in their school, most students expressed wanting free-dress day on Fridays, and field trips.  When asked about what they like about McGill, the top answer was their friends, followed by that it is safe.  Open answer comments about what they liked or disliked about their school included: Liked - friends, small school, their teacher, the principal, AttenDANCE, Breakfast in the Classroom, Dance PE, music and YMCA. Disliked - uniforms, food, homework, Saturday School, and one 'everything' While the survey was anonymous, some surveys spoke about how the students preferred McGill to their last school because it was safe with a lot of nice people, or that it was fun with music, Dance PE, and performances.   A parent survey was also given to families in English and Spanish. Over 87 surveys were turned in on Back to School Night.  Similar to the students, 85% of families felt their child was safe at McGill. It should be noted that only 2% said no, and the remainder of the surveys were left blank.|2019-06-13|McGill is a small school with 157 students and one class per grade-level.  Most of our students attended the Head Start next door and have become a close-nit community where everyone knows each other on a first-name basis.  As in any school setting, conflict does arise, yet students know they can turn to an adult who will listen. As a small setting, the adults collaborate and keep each other informed about conflicts that arise.  Personal relationships have been key in maintaining a positive school culture.  For the 2019-2020 school year, we have begun teaching the 7 Habits of Happy Kids for our character program to develop student resiliency and 21st Century global skills through its emotional intelligence.  While there is work to be done in our upper grades, our young leaders have begun to implement the habits at home and in the playground - validating the power of the program.|Met|2019
12629500000000|McKinleyville Union Elementary|6|School staff administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to grade five and grade seven students. Students were surveyed only with the consent of their parents/guardians. 65% of 5th grade students reported feeling connected to school with as well as 52% of 7th graders. 68% of 5th graders and 66% of 7th graders reported that there are caring adults in school. 81% of 5th graders and 70% of 7th graders indicated they believe adults have high expectations of them. 77% of 5th graders and 47% of 7th graders indicated they believe the school promotes parental involvement.75% of 5th grade students and 53% of 7th graders feel safe at school.  68% of 5th graders  believe they (as students) are treated with respect. This was not assessed for 7th grade. Some concerns are also noted. For example, 35% of 5th graders and 31% of 7th graders believe they have meaningful participation in school. 18% of 5th graders believe that students are well behaved at school (not assessed in 7th). 55% of 5th graders indicated they had been the target of mean jokes or name calling. 51% of 5th graders and 44% of 7th graders  indicated that students spread mean rumors. Other areas of concerns center on out-of-school access to alcohol and marijuana. Additionally, 18%of 5th graders and 36% of 7th graders reported that they experienced some degree of sadness.Our district is committed to implementation of Multi Tiered Systems of Support in both the academic and social/behavioral domains. We have redesigned our procedures for welcoming students back after an escalation or suspension. We have provided staff-wide training in Restorative Practices and implement those strategies where possible. We offer counseling services as appropriate and have a Priority Care Clinic (medical) on the Middle School Campus. Several staff attended the PBIS conference last year as well as a Psychological First Aid conference. We offer specific supports for eligible Native American students in the areas of tutoring and social skills supports. Dow's Prairie and Morris campus' have a Student Support Services Coordinator, and MMS a Director of Student Services, who also assists with social/emotional needs. We employ the Second Step program at our Dow's Prairie campus and mindfulness at McKinleyville Middle School. All three sites are equipped with a sensory room that is made available to students experiencing difficulty with self-regulation. All of our campuses also employ school psychologists as well as psychological technicians to support with social skills groups, de-escalation strategies, conflict resolution and more. We offer comprehensive reading intervention services for students who struggle academically. Further, we have access to a Health and Human Services Bridges grant in which we can refer students and families who could benefit from referral supports and short-term mental health services.|2019-10-24|We are working hard to reduce the number of suspensions of our students. We believe that students learn best while in school and that exclusion from school should only come in extreme circumstances. Restorative Practices has been one way to help students resolve conflict prior to a suspendable offense and/or assist with successful transitions back to school following a suspension. The Middle School has a teacher that supports this model in a room we refer to as The Hub. We try to offer as many supports to parents/guardians as we are able and promote an array of parent education programs. Our marquees offer important reminders to students such as, "Don't Forget to Be Awesome".|Met|2019
15636510000000|McKittrick Elementary|6|a. 94% of those that completed the survey feel that their children enjoy attending McKittrick Elementary School. b. 92% of those that completed the stakeholder survey thought that the Principal had created an environment that helps students learn. c. 89% of those that completed the informational study feel that their children feel “quite a bit of a sense of belonging” at McKittrick Elementary School. d. A single person that completed the survey thought that the school did not make them feel welcome, so they have not become involved. e. 94% of those that responded to the review feel their children feel very safe at McKittrick Elementary School.  f. McKittrick Elementary School does not administer the “healthy Kids Survey.” g. 84.09% of people completing the survey were parents of students currently attending McKittrick. h. 13.64% of people completing the study were grand-parents of students presently attending McKittrick. i. 4.55% of the people completing the survey attended McKittrick in the past. j. None of the unduplicated parents or students participated in the evening stakeholder meeting held last February.   k. This year's parent/stakeholder survey had 45 responses.  That is the highest response rate to date  The district needs to continue focusing on increasing nonconnected community member participation in the decision-making process.  The school district excels at getting the word out to the community through postings at the local post office, webpage, Friday notices, social events, and word of mouth.  The district can still improve the two-way communication process.   The district’s dashboard shows that the school’s “Conditions and Climate” score is red.   This score is based on a single factor, student suspensions.  The increase was due to three additional students' suspensions.  The Dashboard’s results collected from data captured during the 2017-18 school year.    In the 2017-18 school year, McKittrick Elementary School had a total of five students suspended.  Suspensions were up compared to the 16-17 school year when only two students received suspensions.  In a small school, this looks worse than it is.  The disparity appears large because the divisor in the equation is the total number of students.   One has to question the validity of any conclusions made about a small school district’s climate based on this methodology.    The district will continue to do the following;  post upcoming events at the local Post Office.   To offer social outreaches to the community, to address public concerns at monthly board meetings, to solicit input from all stakeholders through small group sessions, and to use the tool “Survey Monkey.”    The district will research the creation of an app that will mirror the school webpage to increase stakeholder participation.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
24657630000000|McSwain Union Elementary|6|The LEA administered several local climate surveys, including the California Healthy Kids Survey as served by the LEA.  Such surveys give the LEA information regarding different ways students , staff and parents perceive the overall school climate.  Key learnings from the survey results show the LEA that 60% of 7th graders and 90% of 5th graders feel welcome at school.  Learnings also indicate that 85% of staff members and 90% of parents feel welcome at school.  These results reveal that our efforts to improve school climate have been effective but we still have room for growth.  There is a gap of connectedness to school between 5th and 7th grades, so we need to continue to implement programs and services to connect to our middle school population.  We now have a full time counselor and a full time psychologist who work with students to help with graduation rates and overall social-emotional health.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
56105616055974|Meadows Arts and Technology Elementary|6|In the 2018-19 school year, the fifth grade students were surveyed. When asked if they felt like they had a good teacher, 94.2% of students agreed, and 88.4% agreed that their teacher cares about them. 85.9% of students keep trying even when the work gets hard. 85.2% of the students agreed that they feel safe at school, and 81.4% of students felt that they had friends.  However, when it comes to handling conflicts on their own, only 71.5% reported that they know how to effectively handle conflict with peers. In response, MATES developed a new conflict resolution tool for students.  This tool is a type of peace path called “The HEART Highway,” and provides students with steps to resolve conflicts with their peers.  All staff members were trained to implement the HEART Highway, and the tool is available in all classrooms, specialist classes, and on the playground.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
13631980000000|Meadows Union Elementary|6|As a K-8 single school district, our Healthy Kids Survey was conducted in only 7th grade for 17-18 school year; however, due to the concerning results, our LEA decided to conduct this survey in both 7th and 5th grade to be able to receive a better picture.  The results were the following: 80% of students perceived the school safe or very safe.  87% of students stated that the school has high expectations of them.  81% of students felt they have a caring adult relationship at school.  23% students experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness.  These results were significantly more positive than the prior year so the teachers and staff felt we are on the right path in building positive relationships and a caring environment at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
23102310000000|Mendocino County Office of Education|6|MCOE administered a local survey of school climate in the spring of 2018.  Following is a summary of the data, analysis and outcomes from the local assessment. Students were surveyed using online Google Survey. Twenty-seven students responded. The questions fall into 5 major themes: 1)Student Engagement, 2) High Academic and Behavioral Expectations, 3) Feeling Valued/Respected, 4) Communication and 5) Positive Relations with Staff. Data: 1) Students perceptions were most divided over the theme, Student Engagement. 52% of the students agreed that they were, 28% didn't know and 20% disagreed. 2) 74% of students stated that teachers had high academic standards and the academics were preparing them for life. 22% didn't know. With regard to behavior, 56% of students felt that rules were applied fairly, 26% disagreed and the remaining 18% didn't know. 3) The survey reflected that 75% of the students felt valued and respected at school. 12% (3 students) did not and 2 students responded "Don't Know." 4) A majority of students, approximately 75%, agreed that there was effective communication on the following topics: academic program information, GPA/credits, academic support and understanding what they need to do to transfer back to their district of residence. 5) 72% of students expressed they have a positive relation with at least one staff person and nearly all of those had a positive relation with two or more. Two themes, Student Engagement and Academic/Behavior Expectations have prompted deeper conversations and questions. How do we better engage students and raise academic rigor. There is a need to take a closer look at the perception by some students, that rules are not applied fairly. Actions/Outcomes:Continue to implement and expand Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) and Restorative Justice. Provide training to staff as needed to successfully implement the identified strategies. SUMS team to implement MTSS structures, including visuals and pamphlets to distribute to all stakeholders. The Student Accountability Specialist will provide conflict mediation and identify barriers to school attendance for identified student groups. Contract with a community agency to provide 4 hours of therapist services and 8 hours of Youth Worker time per week. Implement community mentor program for students.|2019-10-14|MCOE used multiple measures to assess progress toward increasing parent engagement. LCAP actions continue to focus on increasing two-way, home-school communication, participation in decision making through participation on the school's Site Council and training for parents and guardians linked to student learning and social-emotional development and growth.|Met|2019
23655810000000|Mendocino Unified|6|According to the 2019 School Climate Report Card from the California Healthy Kids Survey, 7th graders at the K-8 School felt less connected at school and their perceptions of school safety were lower as compared to the results in 2017 and 2015.  Key indicators such as harassment, bullying, and substance abuse also increased.    At the 9th grade level at Mendocino High School, students felt more connected at school and their perceptions of school safety were higher as compared to the results in 2017 and 2015.  Key indicators such as harassment, bullying, and substance abuse also decreased.      Mendocino High School has taken advantage of extra grant dollars to fund a Youth Project Worker to provide small group work with students on substance abuse and school engagement.  We hope to continue to provide this service again in 2019-20.  The school year 2019-20 marks the 3rd year of our increased in-house mental health services which includes a full-time counselor, school psychologist, and social worker.  The District has implemented many services and programs to help students feel safer at school and to increase school connectedness.  Services include 1:1 and group counseling and the recent opening and expansion of our Family Resource Center.  Staff and parent trainings include Youth Mental Health First Aid, digital citizenship, and substance abuse awareness.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
10751270000000|Mendota Unified|6|During the 2018/19 school year MUSD students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11, participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). The CHKS captured a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Student safety is a district priority. The school district continues to make improvements in this area as outlined in the 2019/20 LCAP and uses the results of this survey for continuous growth in the area of student safety. The percentage of students who perceive school to be safe are as follows:  5th grade = 79%, 7th grade = 64%, 9th grade = 70%, and 11th grade = 76%. When compared to the previous year’s data, grades 9 and 11 had an increase, grade 5 remained the same, and grade seven dropped (from 78% to 64%). A closer look at the data revealed that the drop-in grade seven was due to the fact that more students responded in the “neither safe or unsafe” category. It also should be noted that, for this grade level, less students reported that they felt “unsafe” or “very unsafe”. Therefore, although a drop-in percentage points it can also be viewed as a positive since there was a drop in the unsafe and very unsafe category. The data for the high school grades demonstrated a significant increase. Grade 9 increased by 13 percentage points and grade 11 increased by 17 percentage points. It is believed that the high school is accomplishing this by continuing to provide a very welcoming environment with plenty of opportunities to be involved. There was no significance difference between subgroups. The district will continue to increase school safety efforts as a means to improve the ratings noted above.  With regards to school connectedness, the ratings were as follows: 5th grade = 73%, 7th grade = 66%, 9th grade = 63%, and 11th grade = 69%. Based on these results, students tend to feel more connected to the school when younger. There were no significant differences between subgroups in this area. However, it must be noted that the high school grades (9 and 11) had significant increases in this area. It is believed that this is due to the amount of increased opportunities afforded by this school site and the conscious effort staff is making to ensure that all students participate and belong to a club or team. They are accomplishing this by expanding their afterschool offerings and ensuring that students have an opportunity to know what is available. The district’s elementary schools also increased their after school offerings. Currently, the district does not provide transportation for students who participate in an afterschool offering. Moving forward, the district will conduct a study to learn if providing transportation is feasible and then follow-up to see if providing transportation will have a positive impact on the number of students participating in afterschool offerings. To increase the ratings in this area, the district will continue to provide a variety of options for students to participate in.|2019-10-23|Feeling connected to school has a direct impact on a student’s perception of school safety.  Previously it was found that although students had not been physically hurt they were not feeling safe.  So, the district decided to increase opportunities for student engagement as noted the district’s LCAP.  The district has been consistently increasing its afterschool offerings for the past three years and what has been noticed is that students are now feeling more connected and safer.  Next steps will be to continue to survey students to find out what their interests are and for staff to make conscious efforts to ensure that students participate.|Met|2019
33671160000000|Menifee Union Elementary|6|According to the survey results from the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), Menifee USD did not meet our expected goals for, "Feelings of school safety and connectedness." Middle school climate indicators in safety and connectedness decreased significantly in 2018-19. Elementary climate indicators in safety and connectedness demonstrated some improvement, culminating in results just above the state average.  While we are hiring highly qualified teachers and our schools, materials, and other facilities are meeting standards, we are doubling our efforts in the area of school climate, specifically targeting "Feelings of school safety and connectedness" through on-going professional development and communications training with site administrators.  Parent input in the LCAP process strongly supported a desire for additional school counselors. As such, during the 2019-20 school year, additional counselors were hired, resulting in the staffing of three counselors for each middle school and one dedicated counselor for each elementary school. In addition to increasing the staffing of counselors, MUSD also invested in the Social-Emotional curriculum, "Second Step," for each classroom.  Site principals organized dedication of instructional time with teachers for implementation of lessons crucial to increasing school climate and improving feelings of school safety and connectedness.   College and Career Readiness lessons for the school as well as additional social-emotional support to individuals and groups is provided by counselors as needed. Counselors attend professional development in school site practices in Restorative Practices, Community Building, and Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS).  A focus for the 2019-20 school year, is to increase meaningful connectedness of all students in the Menifee Union School District Schools. District-wide professional development has focused on student-centered learning, discourse, and engagement strategies. Additionally, the Educational Services and Pupil Support Services departments continue to refine and improve the District’s structures and supports for Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) to respond to multiple tiers of academic and behavioral supports our students. The District will administer the California Healthy Kids Survey in the 2020-21school year as a metric to monitor our growth in the social-emotional health LCAP Priority #6.|1901-10-22||Met|2019
41689650000000|Menlo Park City Elementary|6|MPCSD administers the Panama Survey to 5th and 6th-8th grade students. For sense of belonging, our 5th graders scored at 3.8/5 and our 6th-8th graders scored 3.4/5. For feeling physically & emotionally safe our 5th graders scored 4/5 and our 6th-8th graders scored 4/5. Our 5th graders scored the same and our 6th-8th graders scored higher than last year. Most of our students report feeling safe and connected to their schools. As a result, we will continue to work at having an average 4-5 for this indicator and address social-emotional development and issues for students in grades K-8 through counseling services, resiliency coaching and restorative practices for both teachers and students as well as continuing positive behavior interventions in all schools.  We have created a Whole Child Learning and Development Framework that emcompasses our approach in raising outcomes for all students that includes social-emotional well being in addition to academic achievement.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
24657710000000|Merced City Elementary|6|The LEA's annual Culture and Climate Survey was administered in December 2018, and analyzed at a Community Forum January 24, 2019.  Joint analysis of survey outcomes with stakeholders provided the LEA with many ideas about ways in which to enhance/revise the LCAP.  Examples included:  Increasing training and awareness of suicide, bullying, Trauma Informed Practices; Acquiring more counselors, safety equipment, automatic closing gates, a group communication system for staff and parents, blind spot cameras and fencing.  Improving yearly evacuation drills was also supported.  The results reveal that schools are still in need of staff and equipment to ensure emotional, physical and informational safety.  New actions incorporated to the LCAP, as a result of the analysis include:  Further training for staff relative to emotional health and Trauma Informed Practices, inclusion of more fencing, specialized locking gates and a communication outreach system for parents (Parent Square).|2019-02-05|A system of Positive Behavior Intervention and Support is well established in the district.  Day to day management of students at the site level has improved as a result of system training and fidelity, as well as the implementation of alternatives to suspension with social emotional supports.  The District anticipates increased positive outcomes with the December California School Dashboard release of suspension rate information.|Met|2019
24102490000000|Merced County Office of Education|6|DATA: The LEA administered  the annual school climate student survey in the fall of 2019. The survey provides a measure of perceptions of school safety, preparedness, and connectedness.  Of the 139 surveys received, the highest ratings were: students believe that being prepared for high school, college and the world of work is important (85%),  academic success is promoted for all students at school (75%), and that students work hard to understand new things at school (73%) . The lowest positive ratings were: classes being challenging and interesting (48%) and feeling part of the school (50%). Another area with regard to perception of connectedness and safety is the feeling that teachers at school treat students fairly (63%) and students feel safe at school (64%). MEANING/USE: Analysis of the data demonstrate that students need more challenging and interesting coursework offered. With the implementation of FuelEd, more online course work is becoming available to students every quarter which includes elective courses that are of high interest to students. This coming school year, there will be increased extracurricular opportunities after school for school engagement, which involves collaboration with community agencies. School safety is of top priority and safety committees are being formed this year with representatives from each campus to help develop procedures and drills to increase school safety. Also, the LEA is developing a Positive Behavioral Intervention and Support (PBIS) system at each campus to educate students on expected behaviors in school to increase the effectiveness of discipline practices. This system focuses and rewards positive behaviors and helps build a stronger school climate.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
24737260000000|Merced River Union Elementary|6|The Merced River is a small rural community comprised of 1 school that is made up of TK-8th-grade students. The district last administered a survey to its 4th-5th (elementary), 6th, 7th and 8th-grade students (junior high) in 2018-2019. The district compared the results gathered from the previous year and saw small gains in all areas. The data reflected that at a minimum score of 75% or higher, students in all demographics, social-economic status, English Learner and students with disabilities felt that in the areas of Caring Relationships, students acknowledged that the grown-ups in the school district care bout them most of the time (32%) and all of the times (47%). They felt that at least 80% of the adults listen to them when they have something to say. 78% of students felt that adults in the district acknowledge them when they do a good job and 92% of students believe that adults believe that students can do a good job most of the time (27%) or most of the time (65%). The data also revealed that 87% of students felt happy at school, 88% felt safe at school and 91% are proud to belong at our school. When looking at the Supports for Social and Emotional Learning, 78% felt that the school helped them solve conflicts, 63% felt that the district understands how they felt, 64% felt that the school teaches them how to care about each other and treat each other with respect. The district continues to pride itself on the home-to-school relationship that it has established with the community and has made it a goal every year. The district continues to provide staff development on Social and Emotional Learning areas and will address these areas by expanding on the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) and focus specifically on the Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS). The district's goal is to have a fully implemented PBIS system in place by 2020. The district will use the data from surveys to improve its overall scores on these identified areas to best meet students and parents needs. The district's teachers and staff are committed to changing how students treat and care about each other, how others think and feel about each other and treating each other with respect. We believe that PBIS will help us improve on these numbers in the coming years.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
24102490106518|Merced Scholars Charter|6|MSCS annually administers a school climate student survey, typically in the fall of each year. The survey provides a measure of student perceptions of school climate in regards to safety, connectedness, and academic motivation and opportunities. The school climate survey was administered in the fall of 2019.   DATA: Overall, 85% of the student responses positively rated the school in a variety of areas related to school climate. The highest positive ratings were identified by students in the areas of school safety (96%), promoting academic success for all students (96%), working hard at school to understand new things (90%) and the importance of being prepared for college and career (90%).   All other areas showed significant positive results such as being motivated to learn at school (80%) and teachers treating students fairly (88%). Overall, these areas of the school survey has shown improvement from the previous year.  MEANING/USE: The two major areas of concern for this year center around students feeling like they are a part of the school (75%) and feeling like classes are challenging and interesting (65%). The area of challenging and interesting classes continues to be the lowest score and has declined from the previous year. MSCS is addressing this by encouraging students to enroll in the school’s Career Technical Education (CTE) courses and conducting professional development that focuses on increased project based assignments in core classes.  MSCS is focused on working with all staff, students, and families on the positive interactions among all stakeholders and the continual promotion of academic success for all students. Utilizing strategies related to professional development in Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), the school is implementing a program to encourage a more student-centered positive environment.   High school and postsecondary preparation continues to be an important part of the student’s education program. The school continually provides students opportunities to set goals, plan, and develop career and life skills. MSCS has developed and implemented opportunities for students to become involved both on and off campus and to provide students more opportunities to work collaboratively. As in previous years, math continues to be an area most identified by students as requiring additional support. Professional development opportunities are being provided to teachers to better support students in math.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
24657890000000|Merced Union High|6|Board Goal #1 in MUHSD is :"Continued refinement of safety preparation and planning both from a physical point of view and a social emotional point of view." To address  to this goal, MUHSD surveys all 9th, 11th and alternative education students annually on the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). In addition, student voice has been collected during WASC and mini-WASC focus groups and annual lunches with the superintendent. On the CHKS, 50%-59% of students reported that there is a teacher or other adults that really cares about them at school. 49%-59% of students report feeling "safe or very safe" at school in 2018 compared to ratings of 53% to 55% in 2019. This data indicates that the alternative education students express the same levels of feeling safe as the students at the comprehensive school sites, which demonstrates growth for the alternative schools. 34% to 41% of the students reported experiencing chronic sadness or hopelessness in the past 12 months compared to 32% to 37% in 2018. As a response to concerns over these numbers, the district employs full time School Resource Officers in partnership with local law enforcement agencies and part and full time campus liaisons. Also,full time Student Support Managers (SSM) who are authorized to provide therapy were hired for each campus. The SSMs and academic counselors have received training in crisis screening and are available to assist students. Student group analysis of the CHKS safety measure indicate that the lowest ratings for having caring adult at school were from mixed race or Hispanic/ Latino  students for the 9th grade group at 53%/ 52% respectively. African American 9th graders rated "caring adults at school" at 56% and white students at 57%. For 11th graders, the ratings were highest (67%) for African American students and lowest for Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islanders (52%). This data may reflect a conscious effort on the part of MUHSD in collaboration with the local Black Parallel School Board to pay closer attention to the experiences of African American students. There are challenges for the schools to provide supports for English Learner students who are primarily Hispanic/ Latino.   MUHSD staff members have been making progress toward student-centered classrooms and schools that are developed primarily on creating relationships. For the futures, the district will focus closely on gathering student responses with a specific emphasis on school safety and continuing to create caring relationships.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
51714150000000|Meridian Elementary|6|There was no survey given during the 18/19 school year due to a transition year of 75% of the teaching staff and full administration replacement.  Also, the school saw a population change of over 80% due to unforseen circumstances.  This led the staff to determine that since all was so new that a survey would not be prudent until a pattern and culture had been at least been partially created by the new staff since the school is so small.|2019-10-10|The overall school climate in the 18/19 school year needed a complete overhaul so that students especially needed to feel cared for, families needed to feel valued and heard and that staff needed to feel safe, valued, heard and confident in the work of caring and teaching students.  In fairness, we decided that we would wait for a student and family population that had been at the school at least one year before surveying the necessary information needed to improve in climate, instruction and family engagement.  It was also necessary to see the traditions of a long-standing program before looking at change and a survey without going through a full year's cycle seemed imprudent.  These surveys will take place with the 19/20 school year.|Met|2019
56724700000000|Mesa Union Elementary|6|The Mesa Union School District administered the Youth Truth survey to students in the 2018-2019 school year. The survey provides a valid measure of perceptions of student engagement, relationships with peers, relationships with teachers, academic rigor and overall school culture. 95% of students enrolled in the District in grades 5 through 8 completed the survey. Mesa Union's survey results, as compared to similar schools throughout the country, scored above the national average in the area of school culture (80% vs. 73%), student engagement (76)% vs. 58%), school safety (60% vs. 57%), resources (70% vs. 63%) and communication and feedback (65% vs. 62%)  Mesa Union scored at the national average in relationships at 76%.  Finally, the District also administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5 and 7 biannually. The latest results indicate that 68% of students feel connected to school; 55% of students report that they maintain caring relationships with adults; and 48% of students report they feel safe at school. During the course of the 2017-2018 school year the District's appointed Middle School Task Force evaluated and made recommendations to the Superintendent on how to strengthen Mesa Union's middle school program and enhance student and family experiences within the District. Recommendations included: * Rewrite/Update Jr. High Handbook to reflect discipline, academics, and social-emotional supports and policies under the MTSS umbrella * Implement CHAMPS, a classroom and schoolwide management system to develop an instructional structure in which students are responsible, motivated, and highly engaged in the specific task at hand. The students, teachers, staff, and school will speak a common language, have common procedures, and have common expectations across all grade levels. * Increase supervision * Add cameras on the school buses for the protection of both the drivers and the students.  * Professional development for bus drivers aligned with CHAMPS and California's Multi-tiered System of Supports Framework. * Add cameras in high traffic areas like hallways and breezeways in the middle school. * Administer the Youth Truth climate survey in grades 5, 6, 7, and 8 annually. * Increase counseling support from current 1.25 days/week to 2 days/week. * Develop a ”School Within a School” lunch period for 6th graders apart from the 7th and 8th grade lunch period. * Provide a Sixth Grade Parent and Student Orientation in August before the start of school.  As of the fall of 2019, the District has implemented all of the Task Force recommendations with the exception of installation of cameras on all school buses which is underway.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19753090137703|Method Schools, LA|6|In the most recent survey, we found that survey sent to families 83% either agreed or strongly agreed that culture at the school is supportive of all students, and the expectations of proper behavior is exhibited by all staff members with the overwhelming majority saying they strongly agreed.  Two-thirds of students say they feel comfortable going to an adult with issues occurring at school.  Survey results show that Method has a strong relationship between its students and families even through distance learning.  The steps taken to improve communication channels, build rapport in consistent one on one times, and create events that bring Method events to local areas have been successful.  Challenges continue to be distance between teachers and students naturally create a divide that teachers must find creative ways to bridge. Method is increasing the frequency and number of in-person events to help students feel supported and part of a growing community.  Because students are not on campus, Method has invested in a number of vans that allow teachers to go to students.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
37680490129221|MethodSchools|6|In the most recent survey, we found that survey sent to families 83% either agreed or strongly agreed that culture at the school is supportive of all students, and the expectations of proper behavior is exhibited by all staff members with the overwhelming majority saying they strongly agreed.  Two-thirds of students say they feel comfortable going to an adult with issues occurring at school.  Survey results show that Method has a strong relationship between its students and families even through distance learning.  The steps taken to improve communication channels, build rapport in consistent one on one times, and create events that bring Method events to local areas have been successful.  Challenges continue to be distance between teachers and students naturally create a divide that teachers must find creative ways to bridge. Method is increasing the frequency and number of in-person events to help students feel supported and part of a growing community.  Because students are not on campus, Method has invested in a number of vans that allow teachers to go to students.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
19647330127977|Metro Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
16639586113120|Mid Valley Alternative Charter|6|The following data was compiled from the California Healthy Kids Surveys (October 2019): 53% of students report that they are motivated to learn 82% of students report that adults at this school encourage students to work hard so that they can be successful in college or at the job they choose. 82% of students report that their teachers work hard to help them with their schoolwork when they need help. 85% of students report that teachers give students a chance to take part in classroom discussions or activities. 67% of students report that the school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn. 56% of students report that adults at this school treat all students with respect. 40% of students report that school rules are fair. 52% of students report that rules in this school are made clear to students. 46% of students report that students care about each other. 28% of students report that students treat each other with respect. 85% of students report that teachers here make it clear to students that bullying is not tolerated. 60% of students report that if another student was bullying them, they would tell one of the teachers or staff at school. 39% of students report that students here try to stop bullying when they see it happening. 57% of students report that the playground and buildings are clean and in good condition.  Strengths include: adults at this school encourage students to work hard so that they can be successful in college or at the job they choose, teachers work hard to help them with their schoolwork when they need help, and teachers give students a chance to take part in classroom discussions or activities. Challenges include: students do not try to stop bullying when they see it happening and students do not treat each other with respect.  The district has implemented “Tigers ROAR” which are student expectations.  Expectations include respect yourself and others, always give our personal best, always treat others the way you want to be treated, and remember self control.  The district has implemented “Tiger Paws” to hand out to students when students are found to be helping others.  The district has also partnered with the Kings County Office of Education to provide social skills lessons in each classroom throughout the school year.  The district has implemented “buddy benches” on each playground so that students needing a friend can sit on the buddy bench.  The above actions started in August 2019.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
17640550000000|Middletown Unified|6|Middletown USD administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey to students, staff, and parents.  The results are as follows: Parents: Data shows Student Risk Behavior is not a problem or a small problem 74% of parents believe Harrassment and Bullying is not a problem or a small problem 63% of parents believe school rules are clearly communicated and school rules are enforced equally. (Discipline) 67% of parents believe Facilities are clean and well-maintained. STUDENTS (7th, 9th, 11th): Data shows HIGH level of Student Engagement and Supports 70% of students perceive school as very safe or safe (School Safety) 39% of students believe they have experienced Harassment or Bullying 7% of Middle School students report current alcohol or drug use 31% of High School students report current alcohol or drug use 33% of students report experiencing chronic Sadness/Hopelessness 18% of High School students report they have considered suicide  The District believes that the stress from our numerous fires has impacted student mental health in a negative way (depression, PTSD, risky behavior, use of substances). The District has added mental health support and services to address the data above.  This year, the District will add Mental Health First Aid for students.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
15636690000000|Midway Elementary|6|Parent surveys revealed that most respondents (95%) Strongly Agree or Agree with all school climate questions.  Safety, relations and fair treatment of students were amongst the favorable responses.  School currently has "TIGER" program that promotes and celebrates attendance, citizenship and academic successes.  Students are recognized monthly and quarterly and have the opportunity to earn field trip for their accomplishments.  Students have adopted these set standards from program, allowing for a positive school environment to flourish. This positive school climate has helped overall student success.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
21653910000000|Mill Valley Elementary|6|The CA Healthy Kids Survey was administered in spring 2018 to 7th grade students at Mill Valley Middle School. Administered to students across the state, this norm-referenced survey offers information about key indicators related to school climate and student well-being, which provides a valid measure about students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  These are results from several sections of the CA Heathy Kids Survey (with 7th grade students in Spring 2018): School Connectedness •  80% feel close to people at school •  58% are happy to be at school •  60% feel like they are part of the school •  69% indicate teachers treat students fairly •  72% feel safe in their school  Caring Relationships •  73% indicate there’s an adult who really cares about them •  73% indicate there’s an adult who notices when they’re not there •  79% indicate there’s an adult who listens to them  Academic Motivation •  91% try hard to make sure they are good at their schoolwork •  54% try hard because they are interested in their work •  76% work hard to try to understand new things at school •  83% are always trying to do better in their schoolwork  Verbal Harassment •  60% never had rumors or lies spread about them •  69% never had sexual jokes, comments or gestures made about them •  70% were never made fun of because of their looks or the way they talk •  63% have never been made fun of, insulted, or called names  Other Physical or Mental Health Risks •  78% never experienced cyberbullying in past year •  78% didn’t have chronic sadness or hopeless feelings in past year   From these responses, we can conclude that the vast majority of the 7th grade students at Mill Valley Middle School feel safe at and connected to school. We recognize that there are areas of concern that we need to continue to work on, and these will continue to be areas of focus for the administration team, counselors, teachers and other staff members at the Middle School.   Considering the survey results, these are actions the Middle School has taken and plans to implement as next steps:   •  Build relationships to increase staff engagement   •  Increase student engagement and connectedness to school   •  Continue to grow implementation of restorative practices and social-emotional learning programs, including counseling services to students   •  Continue to provide grade level community building activities, such as clubs, athletics, music, homework support, Where Everyone Belongs program, Panther Time, and All School Read   •  Work with Freedom Chemical Dependency and Mill Valley Aware (Healthy Living Coalition) programs   •  Continue to offer relevant parent education related to student wellness and other related topics    •  Evaluate systems of support for students, and provide prevention/intervention programs as needed   •  Expand survey participants to include students, staff, and parents/guardians   •  Consider administering the CA Healthy Kids survey to 5th grade students|2019-10-03||Met|2019
41689730000000|Millbrae Elementary|6|DATA: Key learnings The Millbrae School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 7th grade students. Key findings are as follows: 63% responded they felt connected to school; 57% responded they felt there were high expectations; 73% responded school as very safe or safe; 5% responded current alcohol or drug use; 16% responded experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness; 40% responded experienced any harassment or bullying; 42% responded had mean rumors or lies spread about them. Although the results demonstrate positive student perceptions and experiences related to school climate, the district continues to implement initiatives in order to support student well-being and engagement.  MEANING: Reveal about strength, growth, challenges and barriers The results of the survey and other data reveal most of our students feel connected and safe at school which is a strength to build on. There is a need to reach more students in this area. The area of growth identified as a need is creating a positive manner in the way students treat each other. Students responded there have been rumors spread about them and threatened at times by other students. This has become a challenge to direct the district’s attention in creating a plan to address this behavior. Another area to address is the perception of a caring adult relationship (39% responded) for the students to connect with on a daily basis.    USE: Actions to implement in response to results In response to the results, the District has implemented a Social Emotional Learning (SEL) program this year in grades TK through 8th. Educators are providing weekly lessons from the Second Step program. Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) program is being implemented at all schools and staff is closely monitoring office referrals and chronic absenteeism.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
39754990102392|Millennium Charter|6|Last February, a survey was sent out to all families in the high school.  The majority of responses were very favorable to the school and the structure as well as offerings provided.  The parents were pleased with the mew facility the high school just began to occupy.  There were very few areas identified as needing improvement.|2019-10-14|The school action committee has worked to identify areas in need of improvement from grades to behavior and a series of actions have been taken to unify the staff responses to student behavior.  The SIC ( school improvement committee) meets once a month to review progress.  The school leaders report to the TLC board twice a year.  Test scores are reviewed.  Parents wishing to address the board are welcome and parents or students may join the SIC.|Met|2019
27102720125765|Millennium Charter High|6||||Not Met|2019
21653180000000|Miller Creek Elementary|6|The state recommends that the LEA administer a local climate survey at least every other year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The LEA administered the California Healthy Kids Survey during the 2017-18 year to grades 5 and 7. In grade 5 two modules were administered: the core model and the social emotional health module. 98% of 5th graders reported feeling a moderate to high level of school connectedness. 92% of 5th graders say that they felt safe most or all of the time. The LEA administered the core module from the CHKS to all 7th graders. 93% of 7th reported feeling a moderate to high level of school connectedness. 82% of 7th graders say that they felt safe at school with 12% remaining neutral.   During the 2018-19 school year the LEA administered a student survey for students in grades 4-8. 88% of students in grades 4 and 5 feel safe at school all or most of the time. 93% of middle school students feel safe at school. 74% of students in grades 4 and 5 report that they feel they are part of the school community. 88% of middle school students feel that students at MCMS treat one another with respect and 98% of middle school students report having at least one good friend at school.  The state uses suspensions as a measure of school climate. The LEA encourages the use of restorative practices whenever possible. At the middle school, students are trained to be part of a suspension diversion program called Justice League. Justice Leagues helps students repair harm done to the community by designing an individualized program. The Justice League process includes the parent. The use of restorative or talking circles and No Bully solution teams are additional strategies used to repair relationship as part of a restorative practices program.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
45700520000000|Millville Elementary|6|Millville School administers an annual survey to all students in grades 1-8 in the spring. Our most recent survey was administered in the spring of 2019; the 8th grade class was off campus the day of the survey so we surveyed grades 1-7. The results of the survey were tallied and shared with the Millville School Board, Millville Site Council, the teaching staff, instructional aide staff and the rest of the support staff in the fall of 2019. One of the questions on the survey was about whether a student feels safe at school. To this question, 62% responded "Most of the Time", 33% responded "Sometimes" and 4 % responded "Never." The response made us wonder under what conditions do kids feel safe or unsafe. To gather more information we will add a follow-up question to our next survey and give students options as to what makes them feel unsafe, such as intruder drills, being away from home, the playground etc. One theory is the various drills we practice make kids feel unsafe. The drills we practice include: monthly intruder drills, monthly fire drills, evacuation drills, bus evacuation drills, and quarterly earthquake drills. Additionally, the teachers will talk with their students about how safe they feel at school specifically addressing last year's grades 2, 7 and 6 as they were the ones that had the fewest students responding positively to the question. The discussions with the students will be open ended and allow kids to share their feelings about drills, the playground, or whether things happening at home make them feel unsafe regardless of where they are.  Other questions about safety, such as whether students feel they are being treated with respect or kindness, were answered with approximately 70% positive responses. A question on the survey asked if students know who they can go to if there's an issue with which they need help. The lower grades (1-4) had a more positive response rate (72%) than the middle school (54%). The question regarding the staff teaching students how to solve disagreements with other students respectfully saw grades 1st-4th with 74% in agreement but for grades 5th-8th only 43% agreed.  The results of this survey provides important information regarding student perspective and begged for more information. Through this school year we shall be discussing the results of the survey with students so as to get an idea as to what the students perceive as being unsafe at school, how is the staff failing to teach how to solve disagreements, how can we encourage respectful behavior among students and students and staff, what else do we need to do to create an all enveloping culture of kindness at our school. Student input from these discussions will then be taken to Site Council, the school board and to staff meetings to discuss and dissect. These discussion will result in efforts through active and specific teachings in the classrooms and events at lunchtime to build an environment where all students feel safe and connected.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
43733870000000|Milpitas Unified|6|DATA - Total 1,462 respondents in grades 6th, 8th, and 10th 90% feel safe at school (SA/A) while 10% do not (D/SD) 93% feel safe going to/from school while 7% do not 76% of students at school do not threaten to hurt other students (24% do) 80% students did not get hit/shoved/hurt (44.5% disagree vs. 35.4% SD) 81% do not spread mean rumors/lies (19% do) 99.3% never brought a knife or gun to school 13% of students have seen a gun or knife brought to school by other students 86% of students do not tease or pick on respondent about race/ethnicity 87% feel adults treat all students respectfully regardless of cultural backgrounds, races, or ethnicities 91% of students feel their teachers care about them 75% of students are acknowledged/rewarded by staff 90% of teachers are available when student need to talk 90% of teachers notice the absence 70% of students respect one another 93% has at least one friend they can trust 88% feel socially accepted at school 53% regularly attend events 85% like their school (25.9% SA) (5.3 SD) MEANING: MUSD Student survey data shows that safety is an area of strength with 90% of students reporting feeling safe. Connectedness and having a caring adult at school are areas in need to improve with only 75% of students are acknowledged/rewarded by staff and 87% feel adults treat all students respectfully regardless of cultural backgrounds, races, or ethnicities. An area of concern is the percentage of students feeling free of bullying behaviors and harassment with only 70% reporting to having respect for one another.       USE: School connectedness and caring relationships are areas of focus in our district’s 2018-19 LCAP with a focus on improving school climate via the implementation of PBIS in most elementary schools and Restorative Practices at the secondary level.  The District is expanding SEL program implementation and providing professional learning to support SEL implementation at all school levels.  School Site Councils also review this data to inform their Single Plan for School Achievement SPSA.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
20756060125021|Minarets Charter High|6|On the most recent Parent Survey conducted in the Spring of 2019, over 91% of the Minarets Charter High School parents stated we were Meeting or even Exceeding expectations when asked " I feel my child is safe at school."|2019-10-08||Met|2019
36750440114389|Mirus Secondary|6|Mirus administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of Mirus’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of Mirus’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, Mirus has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, Mirus exceeded this metric. 98% of students reported that they felt safe at Mirus and 100% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at Mirus. Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 Mirus’s suspension rates are 0% and expulsion rates are 0%. These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19753090137786|Mission Academy|6|The school is new and will implement their survey in the fall of 2019. The local school climate survey will be given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results will be analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meetings. The faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and will be given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
38684780123505|Mission Preparatory|6|The following data was pulled from a recent student climate survey and highlights both the current 4th and 7th grade cohorts.  In regards to safety, 71% of students in these cohorts feel “very” or “extremely” safe at school. 27% of students feel “neutral” about school safety. 2% of students reported that they feel “somewhat” safe at school and 0% of students replied “not at all” regarding safety at school. While a majority of students feel safe when at school, we have a cohort of students who feel neutral about safety at school. We will address this data further to determine why they feel neutral. We have emergency protocols in place and we practice these protocols routinely. It is worth noting that numerous students brought up their concerns about the current wildfire issues in the survey, and we will directly address their concerns at upcoming community meetings. In regards to students feeling a connection to their teachers, 56% of students reported feeling “very” or “extremely” connected to their teachers. 30% of students feel “neutral” about connections with their teachers. 7% of students replied “somewhat” and 7% replied “not at all” regarding connectedness to their teachers. It is important to note that there were no students last year who reported “not at all”, and we will explore that further with one-on-one conversations.  While a little over half of the students in these cohorts feel connected to their teachers, we believe that various elements of our programming (i.e. Community Meeting Time, Social Emotional Learning) provide opportunities for teachers and students to connect. As a team, we will explore further strategies that we can use to help every student feel a connection with at least one of their teachers at school. In terms of feeling connected to peers, 79% of students feel “very” or “extremely” connected to their peers, which is a significant increase when compared to last year’s data. Only 15% of students feel “neutral” about their connections to their peers. 0% of students replied “not at all” regarding peer connections. We identified peer relationships as a strength at Mission Prep. Because of our strong longitudinal student retention, our students have shared their entire educational experience together and have strong a strong bond with each other through shared experiences. With new programming this year, (Student Led Clubs, Student Government, Athletics), students have more time together to engage in activities that interest them and to share their passions with each other.  In summary, we will continue to work to ensure a safe learning environment for our students, and to talk more openly about safety at community meetings. We encourage teachers to build relationships through the structures in our daily schedule and we will discuss peer relationships at PD sessions focused on SEL outcomes. We will continue to identify new ways to engage students in both academic and non-academic components of our program.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
27660840000000|Mission Union Elementary|6|Anecdotal records, meetings with parents, classrooms visits and PTO suggestions were the basis for assessing the school culture and climate. Different opportunities throughout the year permits the administration of the school to check on the climate. he lack of discipline at the school, the frequency of assembly to highlight the two major rules of the school kindness and respect speak volume about the expectations of the parents and the behavior of the children. The adminstration, the teacers and the parents carry on with enforcing these two simple rules for adults and children alike and the climate of the organization is that of cooperation, kindness, respect and psotivity|2019-10-09|Te school is always working on highlighting the positives. The principal of the school visits the classrooms almost daily and rewards positive behavior with restaurant certificates from the local restaurants. Furthermore, awards ceremonies are held every trimester where children are recognized for good behavior and academics. The school holds a volunteer tea and the end of the yer to awards the parents who are always volunteering at the school. The PTO holds fundraiser to ensure the funds needed for assemblies and field trips. there is such a positive climate of working together for the sake of the students at Mission It is simply remarkable|Met|2019
19651360114439|Mission View Public|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  97% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  96% reported that they felt connected to the school *  96% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a many students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
48705814830196|MIT Academy|6|The following summary comes from excerpts from the 2018 - 2019 SCAI (School Climate Assessment Instrument) as it relates to student perceptions:  There is an increase between 2017 - 2018 and 2018 - 2019 in positive student perceptions.  Although the students think that the teachers care about them, some are using strategies that are not engaging for them as learners.  There is a need for the use of a  wide range of instructional models including inquiry, PBL, and more cooperative learning.  As a result of this survey, we started to incorporate Instructional Rounds last year in order to get a better idea of the range of instructional strategies that teachers employ. As a result of our findings, we are striving the increase the use of formal lesson planning, academic language, and high-engagement strategies.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
48705810137380|MIT Griffin Academy Middle|6|The following summary comes from excerpts from the 2018 - 2019 SCAI (School Climate Assessment Instrument) as it relates to student perceptions:  There is an increase between 2017 - 2018 and 2018 - 2019 in positive student perceptions.  Although students think that teachers care about them, some are using strategies that are not engaging them as learners.   There is a need for greater use of a range of instructional models including inquiry, PBL, and more cooperative learning.  As a result of this survey, we started to incorporate Instructional Rounds last year in order to get a better idea of the range of instructional strategies that teachers employ.  As a result of these rounds, we are striving to increase the use of lesson planning, academic language, and high-engagement strategies.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
49708476072136|Miwok Valley Elementary Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
50711670000000|Modesto City Elementary|6|In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey, the district provided a Local Control and Accountability Survey during the 2018-19 school year. Hanover Research analyzed the data, which was included in the district LCAP and reported to the Board of Trustees June 2019. A total of 17,961 (increase of 117 students from 2017-18) students responded to the survey. Students reported strong feelings of engagement. When asked if they are motivated to learn, 69% of the students answered in the affirmative. When asked if they feel teachers listen to them, 66% answered in the affirmative. 40% of students feel bullying is a problem, this is an area of growth for the district. Additional PD and mental health support services are being providing. A more detailed analysis of the survey can be found on our website at https://www.mcs4kids.com/district/lcff-and-lcap/workshops|2019-10-14||Met|2019
50711750000000|Modesto City High|6|In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey, the district provided a Local Control and Accountability Survey during the 2018-19 school year. Hanover Research analyzed the data, which was included in the district LCAP and reported to the Board of Trustees June 2019. A total of 17,961 (increase of 117 students from 2017-18) students responded to the survey. Students reported strong feelings of engagement. When asked if they are motivated to learn, 69% of the students answered in the affirmative. When asked if they feel teachers listen to them, 66% answered in the affirmative. 40% of students feel bullying is a problem, this is an area of growth for the district. Additional PD and mental health support services are being providing. A more detailed analysis of the survey can be found on our website at https://www.mcs4kids.com/district/lcff-and-lcap/workshops|2019-10-14|No additional information at this time.|Met|2019
25102560000000|Modoc County Office of Education|6|MCOE does not operate a school making this priority Non-applicable.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
25735850000000|Modoc Joint Unified|6|In comparing MJUSD data to that of other school districts (Palo Alto, Redding, Fall River, Etna, Weaverville, and Weed area schools) it was found that MJUSD students are right in line if not a little bit happier with their schools.  That being said, there is a significant amount of dissatisfaction of students in many areas.  We have hired more support in the form of a Social Worker and family engagement specialist to provide more support for families and students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
36678270111807|Mojave River Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
36678270137174|Mojave River Academy - Gold Canyon|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in a school climate survey on October 2019. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36678270137232|Mojave River Academy - Marble City|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in the School Climate in October 2019. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36678270137182|Mojave River Academy - National Trails|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in a school climate survey in October 2019. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36678270137190|Mojave River Academy - Oro Grande|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in a school climate survey on October 2019. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36678270137216|Mojave River Academy - Rockview Park|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey in the 2017-2018 school year. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36678270137208|Mojave River Academy - Route 66|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in a school climate survey in October 2019. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
36678270137224|Mojave River Academy - Silver Mountain|6|The Mojave River Academy students, parents, and staff participated in a school climate survey in October 2019. Students at Mojave River Academy feel connected to school (85%%) and also feel that their school is safe (85% agree or strongly agree). Parents and staff also feel that Mojave River Academy is a safe place for all students.  87% of parents feel that there is a caring adult at their student’s school. 95% of staff feel that their school is a safe environment for all students. The students at Mojave River Academy meet individually with their teachers once a week and have the opportunity to discuss any concerns that they both academic and emotional.This school year, additional counselors were hired to work with their students regarding social-emotional concerns, attendance post-high school planning, and academics.  Translators and Family Engagement specialists were hired to ensure that families have access to information in their primary language. They also help ensure students have access to resources that are based on individual student needs.  Teachers and staff have regular communication with parents and are available during the student’s appointment time and available through electronic communication.|2019-12-11||Met|2019
15636770000000|Mojave Unified|6|1. Students from grades 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, and 11 were surveyed, with the following results: 62.63% of students reported having a sense of safety, and 73.10% of students reported having a sense of connectedness. 2. The survey results reveal that we exceeded our expected LCAP outcome of increasing student sense of safety and connectedness by 3%, as we increased the sense of safety among students by 13.76% and increased the sense of connectedness among students by 15%. Although we made progress, both metrics are still far lower than we would expect and hope to see, given that safety and engagement are top priorities. Attendance, Chronic Absentee and Suspension rates have also revealed improvements in this area. 3. The Mojave Unified School District (MUSD) will continue to expand our implementation of Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), restorative practices, and Alternative to Suspension (ATS) options. Beginning with the 2019-20 school year this has also included the implementation of Time to Teach—with multiple teacher trainings and ongoing coaching. We are also incorporating additional professional development in the areas of implicit bias, trauma informed practices, and cultural awareness. Based on input from our African American Advisory Council, we have created and advertised a Google Form that allows students and adults to report bullying digitally (and anonymously, if they so choose), which connects information directly to school and district administration for a prompt investigation. Included in our current LCAP is an action to establish focus groups to connect with underperforming students to gather valuable insights and feedback on how we can improve school climate and success. MUSD continues to participate in the Continuous Improvement Process, with an emphasis on equity, with Kern County Superintendent of Schools. Throughout this ongoing process, we seek to improve the sense of safety and connectedness among all of our MUSD students to achieve our LCAP Goal # 2: “Increase the level of student engagement and the level of school connectedness among pupils, staff, and families.”|2019-10-01|In addition to the survey data discussed above, other indicators, such as our suspension rates, reveal that school climate overall is trending in a positive direction (the Mojave Unified School District exceeded its expected LCAP outcome of reducing the suspension rate by 2%, down to 5.34%, less than half of what it was during the 2016-17 school year).|Met|2019
45701106117931|Monarch Learning Center|6||||Not Met|2019
26102640000000|Mono County Office of Education|6|Mono COE administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year, as required. We administer to all of our high school students due to our low student numbers. The results from 2017-18 indicated the following: Key Indicators of School Climate and Student Well-Being: School Connectedness (High) 60% (Moderate) 40% (Low) 0%; Academic Motivation (High) 20% (Moderate) 70% (Low) 10%; Truant once a month or more 10%; Caring adult relationships (High) 10% (Moderate) 80% (Low) 10%; High Expectations (High) 10% (Moderate) 80% (Low) 10%; Meaningful Participation (High) 0% (Moderate) 70% (Low) 30%; School perceived as very safe or safe 70%; Experienced any harassment or bullying 30%; Had mean rumors or lies spread about you 10%; Been afraid of being beaten up 0%; Been in a physical fight 0%; Seen a weapon on campus 0%.  These results are reviewed annually and continually considered for areas of needed growth and improvement.  Our continued approach to improving school climate is to focus on individual relationships as well as needs.  Our Individual Education Plans, completed annually and updated quarterly focus on academic as well as socio/emotional and career needs/goals.  We work continually to educate and support all of our staff, including administrative and support staff to develop meaningful, supportive relationships with our students and time and situations allow and as appropriate.  We understand that many of our students do not have positive adult relationships in their lives and we strive to provide each at least one positive, caring adult relationship that they can rely on.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
10623230000000|Monroe Elementary|6|Monroe school surveyed students in 5th and 7th grade since we are a TK-8 school district and do not have high school.  Key learnings from both groups was the need to expand our student leadership groups with more representation and more meetings. Students feel safe and able to learn at school. A need was highlighted for more specialized counseling services in the area of self harm and self esteem. The district has added two full days with All 4 Youth clinicians that are able to help students and families as needs arise. 97% of the students surveyed feel connected and supported by staff and students. No drug, gangs or bullying were identified.  PBIS MTSS will be amplified by adding a course to the broad course of study as well as adding a student government piece to continue the connectivity that the students feel.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
43693936046627|Monroe Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
19647900000000|Monrovia Unified|6|1. All schools are showing improvements over the last 3 to 4 years. More resources are being put to programs that are targeted to student well-being.These programs have have had a positive impact on student perception data district-wide. Things are improving, but there is still work to be done at all school sites and with programs from the district level all the way down. 2. Monrovia is a small district that works well from top to bottom and services and partnerships can easily be developed and flourish throughout all schools. Programs have increased at all school sites to improve student engagement. Strong partnerships with community agencies have been developed in order to provide more supports for students at each school site. The data shows that students feel their parents are more welcome on campus and are able to seek support and solutions when they have questions. 3. The district has brought in Hazelton and the Olweus anti-bullying program in order to respond to the ideas of safety and connectedness at the school sites. The district is also developing strong partnerships with local universities to bring in counseling and social worker interns. The data shows a need for more social-emotional supports for student, so bringing in additional personnel will provide the extra supports that are needed. In addition, CTE classes and other pathways are being implemented and students are being enrolled in these classes in order to create a connectedness to school. These programs are showing a strong enrollment and students are more connected and excited about school as a result. High school counselors have been given resources (time and funding) to meet with every family over the summer and make sure that the parents and students know what classes are being taken and path each and every student is on. We are seeing an increase in the feeling of connectedness by students and parents as these programs are developed and implemented.|2019-10-23|Data regarding parent and student engagement and connectedness is analyzed frequently and when the data shows a need the district works with all stakeholders to create a plan for implementing new policies and programs to fill the void that is felt by one or more stakeholders or groups of stakeholders.|Met|2019
19647330114959|Monsenor Oscar Romero Charter Middle|6|Students at MORCS were surveyed in June 2019 about their perceptions of their school in terms of Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration, and Culture. In addition, students provided feedback about Project-Based Learning, Student Voice and Leadership, and Drugs and Alcohol.   On an absolute basis, MORCS students provided the highest ratings on Academic Rigor and Engagement, while the lowest-rated topics were Culture and Belonging &Peer Collaboration. In order to put student feedback into context, this report compares MORCS students’ ratings to the ratings from students at 315 other middle schools across the country.  On a relative basis, MORCS students gave more favorable feedback on: Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Belonging & Peer Collaboration  MORCS students gave typical feedback on Culture.   This report represents feedback from 331 students, which represented a 92% response rate.    The school will focus on the following to move next year’s survey results to beyond the typical middle school response rate for culture. The Charter school will focus on  following   goals to increase the students favoarable rating in this area for the next school year:  • Schoolwide policies: Essential 5 • The school has successfully focused on our 5 high-leverage expectations schoolwide (including electronics policy, tardies, uniform policy, etc), by being extremely clear about expectations and diligent in our followthrough • Grade level routines and procedures • Grade level leaders have taken a larger role in implementing and monitoring grade-level procedures such as entry procedure and quiet signal so that students experience consistent routines and expectations in each classroom • Restorative Justice Coordinator • The school is implementing a restorative approach to conflict by conducting community, harm/conflict, an reintegration circles in order to teach students how to heal the harm that their actions may cause to the community • Saturday School  • The school has established Saturday School this year as a behavioral intervention which includes Restorative Justice workshops for students with Tier 3 needs|2019-11-06||Met|2019
54720090000000|Monson-Sultana Joint Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in May of 2019 to 5th and 7th grade students.  62% of 5th grade students participated, and 82% of 7th grade students participated in the surveys.  The survey provides results in three main areas: School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Substance Abuse and Mental Health.  From the survey, the LEA can conclude that students perceive the school as very safe (86% and 88% respectively), levels of engagement and trust of staff are high, bullying awareness is high (83% in 5th grade), and alcohol and drug use is very limited.  The survey also indicates a rise in mental health issues, feelings of sadness or even suicidal thoughts as being more prevalent (18% and 32% respectively).  The survey results indicate that the District/School’s areas of strength are: promoting anti-bullying culture, lack of drug/alcohol abuse, high levels of school contentedness, and a sense of safety at school.  The survey results indicate that the District/School’s areas of growth are: supporting students mental health needs specifically with regards to sadness/depression/suicide, and combating rumors being spread about students.  The data reported validates the District/School’s efforts in providing training and support to staff and students in the areas of safety, anti-bullying, and anti-drug/alcohol.  The data reported also demonstrates a continued need for social emotional supports in the form of counselors, social workers, and school psychologists.  The district has added additional days of counseling support and has added days of social workers in an effort to combat these needs.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
19647336018204|Montague Charter Academy|6|Our survey indicated that our students feel safe and supported at school. They know who to go to for answers and that their school is always clean. They enjoy how they are rewarded and are fond of school leadership. They are also very pleased with our Arts and Sciences program and would like for that to continue. The two areas that will require attention and we need to improve are our afterschool program and cafeteria food. The students want expanded activities afterschool and our 5th graders want expanded choices at lunch.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
47704170000000|Montague Elementary|6|Montague Elementary School District collects and analyzes data using two primary instruments; the California Healthy Kids Survey, and a local school climate survey. A summary of local data is included.  Strengths 1. I am welcome to participate in my child’s school. 97% Agreed 2. Adults at this school challenge my child to do better. 95% Agreed 19. This school offers opportunities for parent involvement. 95% Agreed 17. This school does a good job of teaching my child’s responsibility and accountability. 92% Agreed 14. The school facilities are clean and well-maintained. 92% Agreed  Written Comments:  Good Communication (Mentioned 5 times) Teachers and Staff (Mentioned 6 times) Education (Mentioned 3 times) Sports (Mentioned 2 times) Recommendation: continue to develop partnerships with parents, hold students accountable and maintain a clean facility  School Needs or Areas of Improvement  18. This school has good public image. 30% Disagreed 8. Overall the school performs well academically. 22% Disagreed 4. Homework is productive and supports learning in the classroom. 19% Disagreed 7. I believe my child is receiving the education to prepare him/her for the future. 19% Disagreed 13. Order and discipline are consistently maintained. 19% Disagreed 3. Good teaching is important at this school. 16% Disagreed  Written Comments: After School (Mentioned twice) Accountability and follow through for staff  Recommendations  Based on the perceived needs for school improvement and SSC input, it is recommended that:  1. The school’s instructional model be improved with a strong focus on school wide effort to improve student motivation for learning 2. Provide accurate and reliable data to parents|2019-10-15||Met|2019
49708130000000|Monte Rio Union Elementary|6|School Climate & Safety Related Problems as reported by teachers, students and parents state that school climate is overall positive.  Parents gave positive ratings for teacher support of students, consistency of discipline across students, and student respectful behavior toward teachers.  Both parents and teachers gave the schools similarly high ratings for welcoming parents and families and encouraging parent participation and involvement in the schools.  Parents and teachers overall rated school and district communication with families as positive. District communication (office) as well as school communication (teachers) is something that always needs constant attention. The One Call Now system seems to be their preferred method of communication for the parents, however, emails, newsletters and the Remind App are all used in conjunction with the One Call Now system.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
19648080000000|Montebello Unified|6|California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) data collected in the 2018-2019 School year reflect the following:  Safety: For Grade 5: Most of the time to all of the time for "I feel safe at my school" For Grade 7, 9, 11, and Alternative School: Agree to Strongly Agree for "I feel safe at my school" Grade 5: 82% Grade 7: 68% Grade 9: 53% Grade 11: 47% Alternative School: 52%  Connectedness: Moderate to High sense of "school connectedness" Grade 5: 98% Grade 7: 92% Grade 9: 88% Grade 11: 87% Alternative School: 82%  Additionally, the Montebello Unified School District administers a survey to parents and personnel.  Parents responded:  My child feels safe at school Yes: 86% No: 5% Not sure: 10%  My child feels respected at this school Yes: 84% No: 6% Not sure: 11%  Certificated personnel responded: Our school is a safe and secure place to work Agree or Strongly Agree: 81%  Classified personnel responded: Our School is a safe, clean, and secure place to work: Agree or Strongly Agree: 81%  Parents and personnel report that schools are or feel safe at a higher rate than students. This indicates that outreach efforts to educate parents and personnel on school safety resources, policies, procedures have been more effective for adults than for students. In order to increase students’ sense of safety, an additional action has been added to the District’s Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) in the 2019-2020 school year with an increase in funding for safety and supervision. Mental health services and counseling have also been given additional emphasis and increased funding in the 2019-2020 LCAP to support students’ social and emotional needs, which contributes to their sense of safety.  While students’ sense of safety significantly declines as they get older, their sense of connectedness does not decline significantly and remains relatively high. This is an area of strength for the District and indicates that efforts to support inclusion and emotional safety have been effective. The District will continue to offer programs and services that support the unique needs of students in connecting them to the school community, such as the annual Equity Conference.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
42692520000000|Montecito Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered every other year to our 5th graders, most recently being givenin December of 2018.  When compared to results from prior years, MUS has maintained excellent results on key indicators.  When compared to statewide results, MUS consistently exceeds reporting levels at other schools.  Students at Montecito Union generally feel very safe at school and believe that our adults care about them and have high expectations.  Students report no use of controlled substances other than a minority who have sipped alcohol, possibly at holiday celebrations.  Students largely self-report that they are very nice and they follow the rules.  One particular measure we are proud of are the combined scores for caring adults in school, and high expectations of adults at school.  100% of students taking this survey indicated moderate or high marks on both of these categories, with three-quarters of the students giving the highest rating.  91% report that teachers and other grown-ups care about them and 100% believe that they can do a good job. Similarly, 91% of students said they were treated fairly most or all of the time by adults. Our 6th-grade students participated in a local climate survey as well, where over 98% of students reported they feel safe at school and only 3% reported that they did not feel their teachers cared about their success at school. Furthermore, only 6 percent of students felt bullied or harassed on more than one or two occasions. Because of the small number of 5th and 6th graders at our school, there are not statistically significant subgroups to report on.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
27102720112177|Monterey Bay Charter|6|Local Climate Survey Summary MBCS surveys students in grades three, five, and seven annually regarding school climate and culture. The school community values relationships with students and their families. The survey results reflect this value. Teachers remain with their classes for several grade levels; each child and their family are well known members of the class and school community. The school's LCAP goal of positive school climate has focused attention on this area. Administration disaggregates annual student survey data and the results guide continuous improvement efforts through school wide strategic planning.   Seventy students responded to the most recent survey. The results are as follows: • 90% believed teachers and other adults help when students encounter academic challenges • 90% agreed there are clear consequences for not following school rules  • 87% felt that there was at least one adult at school who really cares about them  • 83% stated that teachers and other adults at school help students solve conflicts  • 87% felt safe overall at school  • 91% believed that their school works with their family toward positive student success • 71% stated that the school building and playgrounds are clean most of the time  • 69% felt that students treat each other with respect   The most recent survey results reflect a range between one to five percentage points differences from answers to the previous survey. The majority of students have at least one positive relationship with an adult at school and state that adults help them resolve conflicts on campus; however, a key learning point is that 32% of students do not feel they are treated respectfully by their peers.The comments centered largely around disrespectful or hurtful language. The results are presented to the Faculty and Board of Directors.|2019-10-31|The key focus goal of the PBIS Committee is to implement a social emotional learning program that includes a nonviolent communication component to improve peer to peer relationships and supplement the school’s investment in social skills programming for general education and special education students. Explicit instruction in conflict resolution using nonviolent communication methods is intended to address the student survey concerns regarding peer to peer interaction. A unified language reinforced by all staff, faculty and administration will support the success of the social emotional learning program. The committee will examine the next survey to determine the effectiveness of the social learning program in improving peer interactions on campus.|Met|2019
27102722730232|Monterey County Home Charter|6|In 2018-19, MCHCS administered a local school survey to students in all grades (this was an anonymous, online survey).  This survey suggests that the vast majority of MCHCS students feel safe, supported, and respected while on campus; moreover, 81.9% of students surveyed indicated that their attitude toward school and learning has improved since enrolling at MCHCS.  Please see below for specific data provided by the local school survey that relate to school safety and connectedness:  Item 3:  "Monterey County Home Charter School is a safe, comfortable school for me to learn in."  Responses (143 students responded to this item): Strongly Agree: 60.8% Agree: 30.8% Neutral: 5.6% Disagree: 0.7% Strongly Disagree: 2.1%  Item 4: "Monterey County Home Charter School teachers, staff, and administration make me feel welcome."  Responses (143 students responded to this item): Strongly Agree: 63.6% Agree: 28.7% Neutral: 4.9% Disagree: 0.7% Strongly Disagree: 2.1%  Item 5: "Since coming to Monterey County Home Charter School, my attitude toward school and learning has improved."  Responses (143 students responded to this item):  Strongly Agree: 42% Agree: 39.9% Neutral: 16.1% Disagree: 0.7% Strongly Disagree: 1.4%|2019-10-16||Met|2019
27102720000000|Monterey County Office of Education|6|Alternative Education uses a survey called Youth Truth developed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation as one tool to determine School Climate.  The survey is offered to staff, students, community partners, and families.  The data obtained is both quantitative and qualitative.  The Alternative Education Leadership Team reflects on the data throughout the year to gauge practice and programs aimed at increased positive school climate.   The data is shared with staff who interact directly with students and families to improve practice and programs aimed at increased school climate.    Two important themes from last year's Youth Truth survey include culture and student engagement.  Pertaining to culture, students and staff treat each other respectfully and staff treat students fairly and equitably.  In regard to student engagement students are inspired to attend school everyday and students are challenged to think critically.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
27660920000000|Monterey Peninsula Unified|6|The district administered the new YouthTruth student and staff survey in the fall of 2018 instead of the California Healthy Kids Survey because of the more robust features of YouthTruth and the ability to disaggregate data into student subgroups. 2018 was our second year of YouthTruth survey implementation. We are administering it in October 2019 and will use data to continue monitoring our progress on school climate.  As a result data reflects:  Elementary Level: • 45th to 62nd percentile: Academic Rigor and Expectations • 60th to 49th percentile: Student Engagement  • 43rd to 60th percentile: Instructional Methods • 74th to 67th percentile: Personal Relationships • 61st to 39th percentile: Classroom Culture    Middle School Level: • 11th to 15th percentile: Academic Rigor and Expectations • 30th to 18th percentile: Student Engagement • 17th to 25th percentile: Relationships with Teachers • 44th to 29th percentile: Relationships with Peers • 37th to 38th percentile: School Culture    Overall, MPUSD elementary and middle student responses indicate growth in all areas except a slight decline in Student Engagement and Personal Relationships. Student engagement is a part of all professional development for teachers, so we anticipate seeing an increase in these ratings in the coming year.    High School Level: • 11th to 30th percentile: Academic Rigor and Expectations • 17th  to 31st percentile: Student Engagement • 33rd to 40th percentile: Relationships with Teachers • 47th to 52nd percentile: Relationships with Peers • 40th to 51st percentile: School Culture • 13th to 22nd percentile: College & Career Readiness  MPUSD high school responses increased in all categories, with the largest being Academic Rigor.  In an effort to increase positive ratings on the YouthTruth Survey, the district is engaging with middle and high school students in in depth conversations and focus groups to engage student voice.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
49708210000000|Montgomery Elementary|6|The LEA is in the process of developing a survey to use every other year and report its results to the local Board as mandated|2019-10-14||Met|2019
56739400000000|Moorpark Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered every other year to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The data reported below is taken from the two most recent administrations during the 2015-16 and 2017-18 school years.  Perceptions of school safety (feeling safe at school most or all of the time) decreased at each grade level from 2015-16 to 2017-18. Although CHKS was not administered during the 2018-19 school year, secondary students reported school safety as one of their top three priorities on the LCAP Student Survey. In light of recent nationwide acts of violence, on and off of school campuses (i.e., mass shootings), it is an ongoing challenge to ensure that students feel safe and connected to school.  The percentage of students feeling connected to school (moderate to high degree) remained the same at grades 5 and 7, and decreased slightly at grades 9 and 11.  To support school safety and connectedness, the following have been implemented as outlined in the MUSD LCAP, Goal 3, “Provide safe and nurturing learning environments where all students are connected to their school communities”. • CHAMPS professional development for staff (a positive behavior intervention and support system) • Active shooter training provided for all staff • Full-time School Resource Officer (SRO) • Full time counselors at the secondary schools and part-time counselors at all elementary schools • Anti-bullying presentations at all schools • Secondary students are encouraged to participate in lunch time clubs, intramurals, and extra-curricular activities • Increased opportunities for students to make connections to school via visual and performing arts, sports, and Career Technical Education (CTE) • TUPE (Tobacco Use Prevention Education) for grades 7-12|2019-10-08||Met|2019
07617470000000|Moraga Elementary|6|School safety and connectedness surveys were administered to 5th and 7th-grade students.  85% of 5th graders felt safe at school, whereas 78% felt connected.   82% of 7th graders felt safe at school, whereas 77% felt connected.  Results indicate relative minor increases and decreases year to year.  All sites continue to evaluate programs for the purpose of assessing the impact on student safety and connectedness.  The District implemented the Second Steps program via elementary and middle school counselors to address social-emotional learning to increase the percentage of all students feeling safe and connected to their school.  Elementary schools, to increase student safety and connectedness, have attended PBIS workshops and implemented PBIS structures and self-reflection.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
43695750000000|Moreland|6|This indicator is aligned to and measured in Moreland's LCAP Goal 4.  We surveyed our students using our Biennial Perception Survey during Spring 2019.  The results show that 92.8% of students reported feeling safe at school and 93.3% of students feel a sense of connectedness.  Both measures have increased from our survey in Spring 2017.  We are pleased with these results and believe this increase is due to our progress in the areas of safety, social emotional learning, and inclusive practices.  We have improved our consistency of implementing safety procedures and communication of these procedures to families.  We adopted social emotional learning (SEL) curriculum across all grade levels and school sites.  To ensure effective implementation, we have a SEL coach that supports our efforts across the district.  Our staff has received training on inclusive practices, that encompasses gender identity and students with special needs, and direct support with their students.|2019-09-24||Met|2019
33671243330685|Moreno Valley Community Learning Center|6|Moreno Valley Unified School District surveyed ALL students in Spring 2019 (as opposed to just grades 4, 7, 10 in the previous year) in order to have a broader understanding of how our students feel about safety and connectedness. MVUSD continued to maintain a strong counseling team. Each site has one or more counselors who provide social-emotional as well as academic support to students. Our partnership with the 13 social worker interns from Cal State San Marcos and Cal Baptist University continues. The interns identify at-risk students and work with them to remove barriers to their education (transportation, mental health, counseling). We have increased our mental health services for students by collaborating with other district departments and mental health associates. By doing so, we are able to provide more intense therapy for students (family therapists, social workers). We have hired five additional behavior support specialists who are focusing on elementary students. The District is increasing stakeholder capacity in tiered levels of behavioral support through collaboration, trainings, and individual consultations. Our PBIS Coordinator now works with Student Services as PBIS/Climate and Culture Coordinator, allowing her to collaborate with administrators and site teams to provide more focused interventions and supports at all PBIS tiers. Saturday STEAM Academy is still in place to help increase attendance and engage students. In all of the above efforts, we have created a more cohesive system of supports that will continuously build and sustain a positive school climate for students.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
33671240000000|Moreno Valley Unified|6|Moreno Valley Unified School District surveyed ALL students in Spring 2019 (as opposed to just grades 4, 7, 10 in the previous year) in order to have a broader understanding of how our students feel about safety and connectedness. 61% of elementary students and 56% of secondary students responded favorably to the topic of school safety.  70% of elementary students and 47% of secondary students responded favorably to the topic of school connectedness.    MVUSD continued to maintain a strong counseling team. Each site has one or more counselors who provide social-emotional as well as academic support to students. Our partnership with the 13 social worker interns from Cal State San Marcos and Cal Baptist University continues. The interns identify at-risk students and work with them to remove barriers to their education (transportation, mental health, counseling). We have increased our mental health services for students by collaborating with other district departments and mental health associates. By doing so, we are able to provide more intense therapy for students (family therapists, social workers). We have hired five additional behavior support specialists who are focusing on elementary students. The District is increasing stakeholder capacity in tiered levels of behavioral support through collaboration, trainings, and individual consultations. Our PBIS Coordinator now works with Student Services as PBIS/Climate and Culture Coordinator, allowing her to collaborate with administrators and site teams to provide more focused interventions and supports at all PBIS tiers. Saturday STEAM Academy is still in place to help increase attendance and engage students. In all of the above efforts, we have created a more cohesive system of supports that will continuously build and sustain a positive school climate for students.|2019-10-29|As of this writing, MVUSD is building a "mini" Panorama survey in an effort to monitor the positive interventions happening at middle schools.  Data from this tool will help the LEA adjust and/or bolster these interventions to better assist the maintenance of a positive school culture.|Met|2019
43695830000000|Morgan Hill Unified|6|Morgan Hill Unified School District surveys students across all grade bands for their perceptions of school climate using a local survey tool with key questions regarding school safety and connectedness. Every other year, we also administer the California Healthy Kids Survey and the project Project Cornerstone Asset survey to secondary students(2018-19 was an off year for these surveys). Local survey results can be seen in the LCAP annual report under goal area 3 with key question results as follows:   Feeling safe at school (4 point rubric, 1 low to 4 high):  K-2, 3.37; 3-5, 3.31;  6-8, 2.99; and 9-12, 3.12  Having a trusting connection with an adult at school:  K-2, 3.43; 3-5, 3.39; 6-8, 2.92; 9-12, 2.79|2019-06-04|See our LCAP annual update, goal area 3, page 43 at: http://mhusd.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/MHUSD-LCAP-2019-20.pdf|Met|2019
36677770000000|Morongo Unified|6|The analysis of the Healthy Kid survey depicted in this narrative will be the same as was submitted last school year as the next administration of the CHKS occurs later this year. At that time we will have new data to report for the Dashboard for next year 2020. The Morongo Unified School District participates in the California Healthy Kids Survey administration every other year. District overall results from the previous two administrations indicate an increase in school climate satisfaction. This data indicates that we are moving in the positive direction. However, some data points were cause for further analysis and action.Within our high schools, the Overall Supports and Engagement SCI scores went down in two criteria and increased very few points in the other two criteria. Fewer students felt that there were high expectations and caring relationships as well as opportunities for meaningful participation. To address these issues at the high school level, we have instituted more Career Technical Pathway choices, a Focus on 9 Targeted 9th grade Success Program, Social-Emotional Learning curriculum and an expanded AVID and advanced offerings program as well as a partnership with the local community college.  Social media is being used to brand the high schools and assist students in feeling connected. With our Junior High/Middle Schools, the concerns were not among the students. The SCI at those levels were all moving in an upward trend, with the exception of those criteria which should be diminishing and are in fact, going down. Though the numbers indicated for Harassed or Bullied at school show a decrease from 48% to 43%....the number is still higher than stakeholders prefer. Positive Behavior Intervention Supports have been implemented and with the survey being held this spring, we are looking forward to additional reduction in this area. At the elementary level, grade five is the grade level that receives and participates in the survey. Over all, the climate at the elementary schools was very positive. However, as a result of this survey, elementary schools began to develop student councils at many of our sites so that there was meaningful participation with the adults in school for decision. We have implemented a 100% visitor I.D. system called Raptor, increased security camera coverage at all schools, and received a grant to implement a comprehensive school/community safety plan.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
49708706109144|Morrice Schaefer Charter|6|DATA: LCAP Goal 1 is to create a positive, learning-focused environment and culture for all students. Schaefer has taken various steps to provide training and professional development in order to improve the school learning environment. The Quaglia My Voice Surveys (students, teachers and parents) indicated that: 42% of students in grades 3-5 reported that they "feel important" in their classrooms (compared to 29% the previous year); 28% of students in grade 6 reported that they are "a valued member of" their school community (compared to 33% the previous year); 39% of students in grades 3-5 reported that they are "comfortable asking questions in class (compared to 44% the previous year);" and 58% of students in grade 6 reported that they are "comfortable asking questions in class" (compared to 59% the previous year). Schaefer’s Healthy Kids Survey was administered during 2017-2018: 74% of students felt safe at school, 33% felt they have a caring relationship with adults, and 31% of students indicated a level of school connectedness.   MEANING: We did not meet our growth targets for our survey results for the 18-19 school year.   USE: As a result of this data we will continue to focus on school culture (LCAP Goal 1) to reduce the number of behavior referrals to the office and support teachers in developing inclusive teaching strategies by increased counseling services and coaching.|2019-10-02|The Piner-Olivet Union School District was significantly impacted by the Northern California wildfires during 2017-18. The Tubbs Fire destroyed over 5,500 structures and Coffey Park (a neighborhood directly across the street from Schaefer School and our district office), was one of the most densely populated areas in Santa Rosa affected by the fire. About 1,500 homes were destroyed in the small neighborhood. Our resilient community has come through this natural disaster with hope and unity despite for three months being displaced from Morrice Schaefer Charter School (as a result of the fires) to other POUSD campuses.|Met|2019
10621660121533|Morris E. Dailey Charter Elementary|6|Data: • 79% of students feel a part of the school • 82% of students feel safe at school • Increase of 12% in students having a teacher or adult at school that cares about them • Increase of 23% in students participating in a weekly community building activity in their classroom  Meaning: Areas of strength included students feeling they have an adult on campus who cares about them and participating in weekly classroom community building activities. These increases were a direct result of actions taken last year to build relationships with students. Challenges remain around students feeling safe at school due to outside events that happen.  Use: • Continued with school kick-off rally and Spirit Fridays • Professional development around student safety and expectations • Quarterly expectation assemblies • Safety assemblies that include how we keep students safe • Student action committee  • Lunchtime activities • End of the year cultural picnic with students and families|2019-09-03||Met|2019
09619290000000|Mother Lode Union Elementary|6|MLUSD annually surveys students [CA Healthy Kids Survey] grades 5 & 7 and a local survey grades 2-4 and staff). See www.mlusd.net for Student and Staff survey results as reported to the MLUSD Governing Board and LCAP pages 7-11, Stakeholder Engagement pages 52-55, and Demonstration of Increased or Improved Services for Unduplicated Pupils pages  139-143.||We continue our Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) efforts, Positive Behavior, specifically Intervention Supports (PBIS) In 2019-20, the district adopted and is implementing a Social Emotional Learning Curriculum District-wide and continue to develop our knowledge and actions using Trauma Informed Practices.|Met|2019
43696170000000|Mount Pleasant Elementary|6|Results of the Surveys indicate that 72% of fifth graders report a high level of caring relationship with an adult at school, and 70% report a high level of school connectedness. These percentages are up significantly from the previous year. While 65% of seventh grade students report, caring relationships with a teacher or other adults, and 67% report a high level of school connectedness; these percentages are down from the previous year.  A high percentage of Parents (88%) also responded that District schools have adults that really care about students, and District staff (87%) report that schools are a supportive place for students. Parents (83%) believe that their school promotes respect of all cultural beliefs and practices.  In regards to school safety, District Staff (96%), Parents (91%), and Students (71% 5th grade, 65% 7th grade), feel Mt. Pleasant schools are safe for students. In addition, District Staff (91%), Parents (91%), and students (86% 5th grade, 69%  7th Grade) responded that “All students are treated with respect.” A high percentage of District staff (98%) reported that schools foster an appreciation of student diversity,   In regards to school facilities, a high percentage of respondents feel school sites have “clean and well-maintained facilities,” (89% parents, 91% Staff, 14%. Students feel the schoolyard and buildings are clean and in good condition most or all of the time (66% 5th grade, 54% of 7th grade).  Areas for growth identified include providing opportunities for meaningful participation for students. For example, parents (70%) and students (45% 5th grade, 30% 7th grade), student mental health as an issue, while Parents (70%) feel that quality counseling or social-emotional support are provided, District staff(74%) indicate they need more professional development in meeting the social -emotions needs of students. There was a significant increase in students (32% of 7th graders) reporting they had experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness. Staff (30% District, 45% at middle school) indicate student depression/mental health is a moderate to severe concern, and 16% of 7th graders report considering suicide in the last twelve months.  Bullying or harassment among students has also been identified as an area for improvement; 39 % of 7th graders reports experiencing bullying. Parents (39%) and middle school staff (70%) indicate bullying is a moderate to severe problem for students. Students (78% 5th graders, 49% of 7th graders) report an anti-bullying climate at school.   Actions taken to address identified needs include hiring additional mental health counselors, working with outside counseling agencies, providing staff development on mental health support,  and anti-bullying rallies and assemblies. Also, campus supervisors and student advisor support students. Family Case managers will also be working with identified students families to provide outreach support to connect them to additional services if needed.|2019-11-13|The California Healthy Kids (CHKS), School Climate and Parent Climate Surveys were administered in fall 2018. The CHKS and Staff survey have been given annually over the last four years. This was the first year the parent survey was administered. A large percentage of students (81% 5th graders, 92% 7th graders) school staff (80%) and parents (29%, many with multiple students) responded to the surveys.  The surveys were completed by a representative sample of the District. The student survey was completed by:  Hispanic 74%, Asian 13%, Pacific-Islander 4% African-American 2%, White 11% and mixed 70%. The Parent Survey, Hispanic 60%, Asian 8%, Filipino 7%, White 5%, African American 3%, Two or More Races/Ethnicities 11%, and 6% Declined to state. For the Staff Survey, Hispanic 43%, Asian/Pacific Islander 17%, White 24% and African American 2%, Two or more races/ethnicities 14%.|Met|2019
44697730000000|Mountain Elementary|6|The Mountain Elementary School District administers a Student Survey focused questions addressing School Climate each fall to students in grades Grade 5 and 6. We study the results in all key areas with specific emphasis on Student Engagement, defined as “Involvement in and Enthusiasm for school." In 2019, we focused our analysis on their responses to 3 core questions: (N= 39) 1. “I feel safe at school.”  Question 1 Result Total = 97% Agreed (49% Strongly Agreed and 46% Agreed.)  2. “The adults at my school care about me.”  Question 2 Result Total = 93% Agreed (37% Strongly Agreed and 56% Agreed.)  3. “I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.”  Question 3 Result Total = 77% Agreed (40% Strongly Agreed and 37% Agreed.)  We have the advantage of working with individuals and small groups to encourage and enhance high levels of student engagement. Every child is known and valued, and staff members are highly responsive to student needs.  We provide school-based counseling to students exhibiting challenges with esteem and/or peer relationships.  This consultative and personalized approach to forging positive student relationships has resulted in a student body that, in larger measure, reports a sense of safety and inclusion both in class and on the yard. Classroom teachers, instructional staff, the office team and learning specialists are dedicated to student leadership opportunities and preventative anti-bully programming that creates a physically and emotional safe learning environment for all.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
37682130000000|Mountain Empire Unified|6|A school climate survey is administered each Spring to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 and measures key indicators related to school climate and student well-being including: School Engagement and Supports School Safety Substance Abuse Mental and Physical Health This local climate survey captures a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness and indicates that school climate is improving overall. However, continued improvement is desired and additional resources are being sought to support continuous improvement.|2019-10-08|While the trend is positive, there is still much room for improvement. To support this improvement MEUSD has opted in to the School Climate Transformation Grant (SDCOE). This five-year project (funded at $3,750,0000) will support 11 of the small San Diego County districts who have opted to be part of a consortium to enhance their multi-tiered system of supports with the goal of improving school climate and student engagement. The district partners are: Alpine, Borrego Springs, Dehesa, Jamul-Dulzura, Julian Union, Julian Union High, Mountain Empire, San Pasqual, Spencer Valley, Vallecitos, and Warner. This grant supports the CHKS survey staff results which indicate the additional PD in the efforts of improving school climate and student connectedness are both needed and desired by staff.|Met|2019
20764146110076|Mountain Home Charter (Alternative)|6|Mountain Home School’s 2019-20 LCAP speaks to our ongoing commitment ensuring that we are meeting the diverse needs of our student population.  Our LCAP Goal 3 states, Provide high quality and effective educational services and products to support student learning, (including necessary and appropriate special education and EL populations), engagement, and school connectedness under the daily guidance of their parent.    The following information contains the results of our Student Survey from the 2018-19 school year.  The feedback from this survey contributed to our LCAP goals and actions for the 2019-20 school year.  52 Mountain Home School Charter students from the grade spans K-5 and 6-8 responded to our local school survey on a variety of topics.  The results were as follows:  1) I receive encouragement from teachers and other school staff.  55.77% rated Excellent, 32.69% rated Above Average, 11.54% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poor.   2)  The school works with my parent/guardian to help me do my best in school.  61.54% rated Excellent, 26.92% rated Above Average, 11.54% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poor.   3)  My school is safe, clean, and in good condition.  59.62% rated Excellent, 28.85% rated Above Average, 9.62% rated Satisfactory, and 1.92% rated Poor.  4)  My school provides textbooks and learning materials to meet my educational needs.  55.77% rated Excellent, 38.46% rated Above Average, 3.85% rated Satisfactory, and 1.92% responded Poor.   5)  I feel my Advising (Charter) Teacher (and other classroom teachers) take the time to discuss my grades, academic successes, or areas for improvement with me and my parent.  55.77% rated Excellent, 28.85% rated Above Average, 15.38% rated Satisfactory, and 0% responded Poor.   6)  Did you participate in on-site classes?  88.24% responded YES with 11.76% responding NO.   7)  Did you feel the on-site classes were engaging and educational?  93.48% responded YES with 6.52% responding NO.   8)  Did you use an online curriculum?  48.08% responded YES with 51.92% responding NO.   9)  Did your Advising (Charter) Teacher provide you with enough guidance and support to successfully complete your online course(s)?  80% responded YES with 20% responding NO.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
01612180000000|Mountain House Elementary|6|The results of our parent survey reflected a strong belief that our school and staff promote a safe and welcoming atmosphere for learning. Staff actively seek parent input for learning and support the success of all students. Results from the middle school aged student survey reflected that they feel like the staff care about their emotional well being, safety, and educational progress. 100% of the students surveyed feel that staff listens to what they have to say regarding their educational interests and treat them with fairness and respect. 100% of students surveyed have not tried drugs and understand the danger in using drugs. 100% of students said they feel motivated and happy while at school. 75% of the students go to bed between the hours of 8:00 and 10:00 p.m. 50% of the students skip breakfast some of the time.|2019-10-31|Communication has increased with the implementation of the Class Dojo app. In an effort to increase parent involvement, we will expand the communication content of the app to include an Event Calendar displaying Board meetings and public hearings. Mountain House School has added an incentive program to continue the positive learning attitude and to enhance motivation for all ages.|Met|2019
05100580530154|Mountain Oaks|6|90% of the respondents to the Annual Program Survey reported feeling comfortable in approaching school staff with comments or to ask for assistance. All but 2% of the respondents felt their child had a sense of belonging at Mountain Oaks. All of the families/students felt the staff had respect for the Mountain Oaks students.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
45737000000000|Mountain Union Elementary|6|DATA: We did not complete a student survey this year. We will make sure we distribute surveys in the spring to our students. MEANING: We need to complete a survey annually for consistency purposes. USE:  We will create, administer, review and monitor annual progress.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
53750280000000|Mountain Valley Unified|6|Results from the Healthy Kids Survey have some predictable trends: percentages of students with high school engagement and supports is higher among the younger students and less so by the time students are in 11th grade.  For 2017 the difference was only 5% points but in 2018 it jumped to a difference of 20% points between 7th and 9th grade.  This may be due to having classes in portables for all of the 2018-19 school year at the high school.  For school safety the 5th and 7th grades report that 71% feel safe at school v 63% in 9th grade at the high school. Only 36% of 11th graders report feeling safe at school (the question is, “Do you feel safe at school?”)  Unfortunately it doesn’t ask why they do or don’t feel safe at school so this is an area that needs further investigation. There was another big change from 2017 to 2018 on alcohol and drug use- in 2017 this was 20% in 7th grade and in 2018 only 6%.  The high school went from 33% down to 13% in 9th and 21% in 11th.  The most disturbing statistic is that of  students who have considered suicide. It is zero in 7th grade, but 17% at 9th and 29% at 11th grade.  We are addressing these challenges through implementation of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support, an increase in counseling for students at all levels from district counseling technicians to a counselor with a PPS to Behavioral Health counseling in the schools. These are all written into our LCAP and we are looking forward to seeing if a change for the good is reflected the next time we administer the Healthy Kids Survey.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19648160000000|Mountain View Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to 387 students in 5th grade. 255 students (66%) indicated that feel connected with their school site. We continue to implement PBIS strategies across all of the school sites. The schools that have demonstrated high connectedness according to their 5th grade population are Payne Elementary (77%) Monte Vista Elementary (74%) and Maxson Elementary (71%). These school sites have diligently worked at addressing Social Emotional Learning and PBIS.  270 students (70%) indicated that they feel safe at school. As a District, all schools are now closed campuses and many have been outfitted with entrance cameras. All sites have campus monitors who are vigilant addressing issues and preventing situations. Our local police department and School Resource Officer are pro-actively involved with each of our schools through parent meetings, advisement community outreach programs, positive student interactions and participation in school and district events. Our school site counselors provide group and individual sessions on emotional control, peer-to-peer relationship building, communication, and other social-emotional competencies.  The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to 545 students in 7th grade. 327 students (60%) indicated they feel connected with their school site. The middle schools offer a variety of learning opportunities and ways for students to connect to school. These include Marching Band, Drill and Flag Team, robotic classes and clubs, ASB, AVID, Speak up contest, Elks Drug Awareness competition, as well as after school intervention classes, ThinkTogether and Saturday academies.   295 students (54%) indicated they felt safe at school. Our middle schools are closed campuses and are staffed with campus security who oversee and maintain order on the campus. In addition there are school counselors and mental health interns that support students and their families. Our School Resource Officer is also highly visible, involved and supportive of a positive school climate. Student anonymity is critical in giving students the opportunity to report incidents such as bullying or harassment.   Challenge and Goals Our biggest challenge we plan to address is meaningful participation from the point of view of our students. Only 43% of 5th graders and 31% of 7th graders indicated that their participation in school was meaningful.  We have seen low ratings in this area for the past several years. Our main goal districtwide is to increase active engagement by incorporating Social Emotional Learning strategies throughout the curriculum. We began this school year with a district-wide professional development on Multi-tiered Systems of Support with an emphasis on SEL.   We will develop a simple, check-in survey that we can administer more frequently throughout the year to better gauge meaningful participation, safety, and school connectedness of our students in grades 3-8.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
36677850000000|Mountain View Elementary|6|Mountain View School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) during the 2018-19 school year.  Students in grades 5 & 7 completed this survey, which provides a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Results are intended to serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority 6: School Climate.    A review of the key indicators of school climate show some variations in elementary and middle school ratings by students.  In regards to school safety, fifth graders reported feeling safer than 7th graders.   Eighty-two percent of participating 5th graders and 67% of 7th graders perceived their school as “very safe or safe.”  For grade 7, 27% of our students indicated that they felt “neither safe nor unsafe.”  This means that only 6% of students actually reported feeling “unsafe or very unsafe.”   Ninety-four percent of both parents and staff surveyed felt that the school setting was “very safe or safe.”  The district continues to implement enhanced safety procedures such as fingerprinting volunteers, security entrances and lockdown of school facilities (LCAP, Goal 4).  Student supervision and the safety of students is always a top priority.  Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) continues to be implemented across the district to enhance the environment for all students (LCAP, Goal 2). Training and supports are provided to staff on dealing with behavioral challenges.   For school connectedness there was less of a variation: 76% of the 5th graders and 69% of the 7th graders reported feeling connected to the school “most or all the time.” There was also minimal variance in academic motivation of students.  Eighty-nine percent of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported being academically motivated.  Goal 2 & 3 of the LCAP are focused on connecting students to the school. Multiple opportunities are provided to students to participate and engage in supplemental activities, both during the school day and outside of the school day.  A review and discussion of these actions and services will occur during the annual LCAP student engagement meeting with our middle school students to drive the direction of the LCAP.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
36679186118350|Mountain View Montessori Charter|6|Students in grades 2-6 are surveyed annually. The results from the statement “I feel safe at my school” show that 90.51% of student respondents agree with the statement.  This is an increase of 10% from the prior year. As a result, our superintendent continues to conduct student focus groups at each school twice a year to further understand student concerns and/or input about safety. Based on student, parent and staff input, Victor Elementary School District is continuing with its 3 year MTSS plan. Lead teams at each site meet weekly to review data and refine processes. VESD leadership meets with the school MTSS teams twice yearly to review and refine MTSS planning.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
43695910000000|Mountain View Whisman|6|In 2018-19, MVWSD administered a Local Control Accountability (LCAP) Survey to all students in grades 4-8 and the Panorama Survey for students in grades 5 and 7. Both surveys provide measures of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Below are the survey highlights. On the LCAP survey 92% of our students agree or strongly agree that adults at school care about their success. 93% indicated that they trust their teachers and 87% are comfortable asking teachers questions. 96% of students state that they have friends at school. 87% of students feel safe on campus. 83% of students agree or strongly agree that there are clear and fair consequences for breaking rules at school. Results of the Panorama survey indicate that 52% of students in grades 5 and 7 reported favorably for school belonging, 55% reported favorably for school climate, 66% for school safety, 70% for rigorous expectations, and 69% for school teacher relationships.  Results from both surveys were very similar to the prior year.    MVWSD LCAP Goal 4 is to ensure a safe, healthy, and respectful District and school environment to increase engagement, involvement, and satisfaction of students, staff, parents, and community members. Action 1 in this goal provides all schools access to Project Cornerstone programs. Action 2 requires that all schools have a climate goal and action plan in their Single Plan for Student Achievement. All schools had access to the data collected from the District's LCAP survey and Panorama Survey. Also, the District School and Community Engagement Facilitators (SCEF - LCAP goal 4, actions 4, 5) act as a liaison between students, staff, and parents to remove barriers to improve student learning and achievement. They play an important role in supporting student and family connectedness to our schools. Their responsibilities include serving as a resource for students and parents and connecting them to  district and community agencies, resources, parent education, and other events and activities that are linked to positive student outcomes.  MVWSD LCAP Goal 3 is to provide a broad course of study to ensure that all students are prepared for high school with the academic skills and mindset necessary for successful citizenship in the 21st Century. Goal 3, Action 12 provides one counselor for each middle school. The counselors support middle school students with academics and feelings of connectedness at school.   The District continues to have a Health and Wellness committee to review policies and programs that support overall student wellness. The District is continuing its partnership with Santa Clara County Behavioral Health Services in 2019-20.  This year, staff will be trained on Trauma Informed Practices through the Kognito platform.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
43696090000000|Mountain View-Los Altos Union High|6|The CHKS was administered in the Fall of 2017 to all 9th and 11th graders. It will re-administered this fall in November 2019. The 2017 School Climate Report Card showed an increase to the School Climate Index (SCI) for LAHS and a decrease for MVHS. The increase at LAHS was due to the reporting of lower violence and substance use. Overall rates of ‘perceived school safety’ and ‘school connectedness’ remained the same for LAHS. MVHS had a decrease of 29 points. There was a decrease in overall rates of ‘perceived school safety’ and ‘school connectedness.’ The 2017 report concluded that on an overall scale of school connectedness, 61% 9th grade students scored at a high range, while 34% scored at a mid-range and only 5% scored at a low range. 9th grade students rated fairly high on questions that expressed positive feelings at school. 66% felt close to people at school.  69% felt happy to be at this school, while another 21% felt neutral. Similarly, 64% of students felt part of the school. The timing of the CHKS survey has a great impact on the results. The survey was administered in November, three months into these students’ first year of high school. Most 9th graders need at least a semester to acclimate. The higher percentages are evidence of what the schools have done to create a welcoming and supportive environment for students. The results for 9th graders scoring overall at the high range vary by student groups based on ethnicity. Only 18% of Latino students scored at the high range for school connectedness, while 29% of White students scored high. On every indicator, White students scored higher than Latinos at least by 5% and at most by 13%. African American and Asian students scored similarly to Latino in school connectedness. However, Asians surpassed all students groups on academic motivation. Males scored higher at 24%, while females scored at 20%. Two groups that would require further investigation would include Latino and females. Historically, Latino students have underperformed in most performance indicators compared to their Asian and White peers. It is not surprising to find that fewer Latino students feel disconnected from school. Closing the connectedness gap for Latino students remains a strong focus at MVLA. The CHKS concluded that 9th graders generally feel safe at school. 77% reported that they feel safe at school. 71% have never experienced harassment or bullying. 92% have never felt threatened or feared fighting a peer. 82% of students never experienced cyberbullying. A lower percentage of 76% reported had never experienced name-calling. 15% reported that the reasons for feeling unsafe was attributed to issues of race. The WASC self-study process revealed a focus on improving student wellness and school connectedness.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
36677930000000|Mt. Baldy Joint Elementary|6|Mt. Baldy School understands the link between emotions and students’ ability to learn. We conduct student surveys to all of our students (Kindergarten through eighth grade) three times a year in order to monitor and respond to students’ emotional needs. Aggregate data follows on four items specifically addressing school safety and connectedness. This data reported is from within the K-5 grade span from a survey conducted in 2018-2019.  95% of students responded "strongly agree” or “agree” to the statement, "I feel physically safe when I am at Mt. Baldy School." 100% of students responded” strongly agree” or “agree” to the statement, "I am proud to be a Mt. Baldy Student." 60% of students responded with “strongly agree” or “agree” to the statement, "I believe the students at Mt. Baldy School treat me with respect." 95% of students responded strongly agree or agree to the statement, "My teacher listens to me when I have a problem or concern." The next set of data reported is from within the 6-8 grade span from a survey conducted in 2018-2019. 100% of students responded” strongly agree” or “agree” to the statement, "I feel physically safe when I am at Mt. Baldy School." 100% of students responded” strongly agree” or “agree” to the statement, "I am proud to be a Mt. Baldy Student." 78% of students responded with “strongly agree” or “agree” to the statement, "I believe the students at Mt. Baldy School treat me with respect." 100% of students responded strongly agree or agree to the statement, "My teacher listens to me when I have a problem or concern." As a result of analysis of most recent data, the LEA will continue practices to support student social-emotional learning and wellness such as Peer Mediation, Commonsense Media Lessons, mindfulness practices, and teacher professional development. In addition, focused conversations will be conducted with student groups to understand and problem-solve issues of respect on campus.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
07617540000000|Mt. Diablo Unified|6|In the spring of 2017-2018 school year, a sampling of Mt. Diablo Unified School District students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CAHKS.)   A total of 2,261 fifth graders, 2,417 seventh graders, 1,867 ninth graders, and 1,623 eleventh graders took the survey.  According to the CAHKS data, more that 90% of fifth graders surveyed agreed with the statement that they felt safe all or most of the time at school when they are on campus.   When you look at specific issues that may affect student safety at the elementary school, “Having mean things said about other students or called them bad names” was the most frequent offense identified by students that contributed to them feeling unsafe.   At the secondary level, the data showed that more than 83% of students felt safe at school.   When you look at specific issues that may affect student safety at the secondary level, “Verbal harassment” had the highest numbers of incidents that contributed to students feeling unsafe. When asked about school connectedness, data showed that 38% of the fifth grade students surveyed felt highly connected with school peers and/or staff, followed by 53% who felt moderately connected.   At the secondary level, 38% of secondary students felt highly connected with school peers and/or staff and 55% felt moderately connected.  It is important to note that each school site received data specific climate information for their school to incorporate actions and services into their Single Plan for Student Achievement and into their Comprehensive School Safety Plan.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
18750360121657|Mt. Lassen Charter|6|Mt. Lassen Charter School (MLCS) used a local survey to gather input from parents/guardians. The survey consisted of 31 questions organized into three areas of focus; (1) Building Relationships between School Staff and Families (2) Building Partnerships for Student Outcomes (3) Seeking parent/guardian input for Decision-making. Results from the 2018/2019 survey showed that 97.3% of parents feel Mt Lassen Charter School ensures children and families receive an educational experience in an inclusive, welcoming, and supportive environment. The survey was distributed to parents, and students, in grades 4 - 12 during April of 2019. 29.2% of parents including parents of unduplicated students completed the survey. As a school of choice parents are very involved in their children's education. At MLCS parents have a significant voice in many aspects of the total school program. Areas identified as weaknesses by staff, parents, and other stakeholders are quickly addressed and mitigated when possible resulting in a very high approval rates by parents and students.|2019-02-20||Met|2019
47704250000000|Mt. Shasta Union Elementary|6|On average, 8% of our students report that other students do not treat them kindly and with respect.  This number continues to drive our efforts and training around restorative practices and conflict-resolution tools and how we can effectively teach those to students.  Only 3% of students report not feeling safe at school.  Our district has made a significant investment in fencing, cameras, and door security system, and these are the results for which we were hoping.  We have a very low rate of student fights at school, and this percentage also speaks to how students feel around each other as they go about their day.|2019-10-08|We administer the CA Healthy Kids Survey every other year and will administer it to 5th and 7th graders again this year, reporting the results to stakeholders and the board in Spring of 2020.|Met|2019
37680236037980|Mueller Charter (Robert L.)|6|Students in 5th grade, 7th grade, 9th and 11th grade participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for the 2018-19 school year. Results are reported to the local governance, Leadership Councils and Parent Council. Additionally, results are utilized in the development goals for the Comprehensive Safe School’s Plan. The School Counseling Department in conjunction with staff and site leadership utilizes CHKS data to drive guidance curriculum and action steps. All grade levels surveyed reported high or moderate rates of:  Caring Adult Relationships 94%, Meaningful Participation 56%, High Expectations 96%, and 4% reported feeling unsafe at school.  This data shows high rates of student connectedness.  An area identified as needing attention is in meaningful participation.  Providing more engaging opportunities for students to participate in will be explored for this school year.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
13632060000000|Mulberry Elementary|6|At Mulberry Elementary we feel that providing a school climate that is safe, positive, and inviting to our students is a priority that we feel strongly about.  When stakeholders meet and discuss the school, school climate is brought up each time.   Our district is in a rural area and it is vital that our students and their families feel comfortable and safe in our learning environment. We conducted a Student Survey in which all students in grades 2-8 anonymously responded to questions about the school climate here at Mulberry Elementary.  There were 53 student surveys returned, stating that 76% of the students feel this is a safe place to attend school, with 19% saying they were not sure, and 5% responded no.  72% of our students feel as though their teachers are concerned about their success, with 28% responding they were not sure.  85% of our students feel they are involved in and a part of things at school, while 8% stated they were not sure, and 7% responded no.    After reviewing the results, although the majority of our students feel safe, involved, and that their teachers are concerned about their success, as a staff we feel it is important to address the concerns and feelings of those “not being sure” expressed by some of our students in this survey.  Our current LCAP Goal #4 focuses on school climate.  We plan to continue to implement the planned actions in order to provide a school climate where all of our students feel safe and connected to our school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647336119044|Multicultural Learning Center|6|The key findings of our student Panorama Surveys focusing on School Belonging, School Climate, School Engagement, School Safety and Teacher and Student Relationships: 77% of students feel like the belong at school; 71% of students feel understood as a person; 79% of students report a positive school energy; 77% of students are interested in classes and are eager to participate in class; 81% of students perceive that they have a growth mindset; 78% of students report their teachers are respectful to them; 80% of students report that their peers show respect toward them; 23% of students frequently worry about violence on campus; 13% of students report a likelihood of online bullying among school peers.  In looking at these results , we can see the long-term effects of our focus on Social Emotional Learning and Growth Mindset Practice. It appears, that self-awareness and self-management is something students develop over time. The fact that students demonstrate a high percentage of respectful behavior from their own peers, also demonstrates the development in social awareness and relationship skills. These results show growth over last year’s data and it shows that our focus on explicit learning in Social Emotional development has had a positive effect. A wonder we have, is why do a 23% of students not feel a sense of belonging at school? Why do 29% not feel understood? What have we done to help those who do feel like they belong and are understood feel the way they do – and what is missing for the other students? We have been developing our practice in anti-bias teaching, and well as culturally relevant teaching. This appears to be an area to continue our focus as we improve the climate and conditions for all students.  We wonder how much of student fears come from the media and exposure to news of school and community violence. Overall this is an area of focus in terms of how we address students’ fears and feeling of safety in school and in our world. This data shows us many of our practices are working:  • Dedicated time for SEL – 30 minutes per day focused on developing growth mindset, engaging in community problem solving, practicing and apply the five MLC Standards (respect, safety, caring, responsibility, and tolerance), and Mindfulness. We have used SEL Grant Funds to purchase a new K-8 curriculum and professional development to support this work – Empowering Education. • Professional Development in Anti-Bias Teaching and Culturally Relevant Instruction – this is something we have begun and will continue to build upon to ensure all students have a sense of belonging and inclusion. • Focus on MLC Five Standards – with contests, campaigns and assemblies designed to promote and reward positive and exemplary behavior|2019-10-24|A new program we are starting in partnership with the Anti-Defamation League is a school-wide campaign called No Place for Hate. This campaign, run by students school-wide will promote a culture of acceptance and diversity throughout. We anticipate an effect on students feelings of safety and engagement, as well as provide tools for addressing fears of extreme school violence and local attacks on race and culture in our country, which they know is becoming a common reality|Met|2019
56725040000000|Mupu Elementary|6|Mupu Elementary School District implemented the California Healthy Kids Survey in Spring of 2018 and will be conducting another survey this coming spring. The focus of this survey is to gather data on whether positive school conditions and climate ensure that all students feel socially, emotionally, and physically safe and that they feel supported and engaged in learning and teaching. Survey participants include 11 students in the fifth grade (65%) and 13 students (100%) in the seventh grade. When students were asked if they felt safe at school, treated fairly, and happy to be at school, 82% of 5th graders and 62% of 7th graders stated they had a high level of school connectedness. When students were asked if teachers and adults at school cared about them and listened to them, 73% of 5th graders and 38% of 7th graders stated they had a high level of caring relationships with adults in school. The remainder of students stated they had a medium level of caring relationships. There were zero responses for a low level of caring relationships. There were 73% of 5th graders and 62% of 7th graders that reported a high level of teachers telling them when they have done a good job and believe in them. 27% of 5th graders and 31% of 7th report a medium level of high expectations at school. When asked whether they feel safe at school, 82% of 5th and 31% of 7th graders said they feel safe at all times. 18% of 5th grades and 46% of 7th graders reported they feel safe most of the time. Teachers and staff use the data to look for areas of improvement and how best to ensure the success of our scholars. All Mupu staff works hard to build positive relationships and ensure that this is a place where scholars and families feel welcome.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
15636850000000|Muroc Joint Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
33752000000000|Murrieta Valley Unified|6|Our schools are a place of choice in our area with 2446 transfers into Murrieta schools.  Most students transfer to the Murrieta district for the visual and performing arts programs, but also come for AP, IB and Dual Enrollment courses as well as for CTE pathways and JROTC programs.   California Healthy Kids Survey Climate Scores reveal mixed results concerning school climate.  The Middle School Climate Index (SCI) of 286 (range is 100 to 500) was 22 points higher than the prior year.  The High School Climate Index (SCI) remained at 285.  The SCI State Percentile for Middle School was 42 and the Similar Schools Percentile was 25.  At the high school level, the State Percentile was 38 and the Similar Schools Percentile was 32.  MVUSD scored below average compared to other districts on school climate measures. The middle school survey showed increases in overall supports and student engagement in conjunction with reduced violence and substance use.  Fewer students indicated that they had been harassed or bullied at school and 85% reported trying hard on schoolwork.  High school students perceived higher overall supports and engagement and lower overall violence and substance use.  Students reported increased opportunities for meaningful participation but indicated slightly lower levels of adult high expectations and caring relationships. Elementary School Climate Indicators are mostly approaching or just above state averages.  Some of the results are contradictory. Nearly 80% of students indicated there is an anti-bullying climate, but 52% reported being harassed at school.  86% of students felt that there are caring adults at school and 83% felt safe. There continues to be deliberate efforts to engage parents of diverse backgrounds to obtain feedback regarding communication and services to better serve students.  There are intentional efforts to engage students of diverse backgrounds at the secondary level to obtain their feedback in order to provide improved services to meet their educational needs.   Additionally, school sites are gathering qualitative data through a variety of means regarding connectedness, programs, policies and procedures to ensure student engagement, learning and success.   As a result of 2017-18 stakeholder survey results, the district implemented the following services: • Increased Student Resource Officers; • Mental Health Therapists to serve secondary students; • Full-time elementary counselors at all elementary schools; • Enhanced stakeholder engagement through a variety of advisory groups. In response to 2018-19 stakeholder survey results, MVUSD has identified nine themes to address: • Relevant homework; • Teacher communication re: individual student progress; • Welcoming/helpful office staff; • Restroom cleanliness/repair; • Individual staff accountability; • Staff/Student relationships; • Counselor communication; • School policies; • Assessments.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37683386115570|Museum|6|The school conducts the California Healthy Kids Survey annually for students in grades 4-8. The results are reviewed by members of the School Leadership Team and pertinent staff.  The 2018-2019 7th Grade CHK Survey revealed that 81.8% of students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school, 18.2% of students responded neutrally, and no students indicated that they do not feel safe. 86.3% of students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel close to people at the school, 13.6% of students responded neutrally and no students indicated that they do not feel close to people at the school.  The 2018-2019 CHK Survey revealed that 90.4% of 6th graders agreed or strongly agreed that they feel safe at school, 4.8% responded neutrally and 4.8% (one student) responded that they do not feel safe at school. 80.9% of students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel close to people at school, 14.3% responded neutrally and 4.8% (one student)  responded that they do not feel close to people at school.  To help identify students who may need emotional support or struggle with mental health needs, teachers at the school conduct a Student Risk Screening Scale for all students three times throughout the year. Additionally, the school conducts an annual Staff Survey to aide in determining perceptions of school climate and safety.|2019-10-14|California Healthy Kids Survey Parent Survey - 93% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that the Museum School is a safe place to learn. Suspension & Expulsion Rate - The Museum School had a total of 3 suspensions for the 2018-2019 school year.  School Safety Plan - The Museum School has a Board approved Comprehensive School Safety Plan that includes anti-bullying and harassment curriculum, policies and procedures. Students in grades 6-8 recieve instruction on preventing sexual harassment.|Met|2019
19647330102483|N.E.W. Academy Canoga Park|6|Student Climate Survey:  N.E.W. Academy Canoga Park conducts a survey in regards to school climate. This measure includes students' perceptions about school safety, including the physical environment, engagement, and feelings of safety and connectedness to teachers, staff and peers. The data collected helps schools promote successful cognitive, social, emotional and physical development of all students and provide information to guide improvement efforts in regards to enhancing school climate, pupil engagement, and well-being.  Survey Response Results: 76% of 3rd grade students participated in the survey 66% of 4th Grade Students participated in the survey 96% of 5th Grade Students participated in the survey  Feeling Safe At School: -86% of 3rd graders, 88% of 4th graders, and 91% of 5th graders reported feeling safe at school -Students indicated they had someone they could go to or knew they could go to someone for support and safety. -Students felt the school was safe and clean -93 % of 3rd graders, 84% of 4th graders and 94% of 5th graders indicated they were treated with respect -An average of 70% of students perceived themselves and peers behaved well  Feeling a Sense of Connectedness at the School: -81% of 3rd graders, 61% of 4th Graders and 77% of 5th graders indicated feeling a sense of connectedness at the school -Survey results indicated the majority of students perceived their relationship with their teachers, staff and peers was positive -70% of survey respondents felt they had someone at the school who cared about them -An average of 50% of students perceived that they were being motivated to do well in school  Next Steps: -Continue using the Second Step Program to teach social emotional skills for learning  -Continue using our Bully Prevention Program -Promote Kindness  -Send positive notes home -Recognize and reinforce positive behaviors -Implement safety, bully prevention and kindness assemblies -Implement Lunch with the Principal and other recognition events|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330100289|N.E.W. Academy of Science and Arts|6|N.E.W. Academy of Science and Arts (NASA) surveys students in regards to school climate. This measure includes student perceptions about school safety, including the physical environment, and connectedness and engagement and feeling of safety with teachers, staff, and peers.  The data collected is used to establish programs, provide resources, and/or make necessary adjustments to academic instruction. The NASA Student Climate Survey was given to 5th grade students at our school. The survey further helps in calculating Priority 6 of the local indicators for NASA.  Generally, the survey shows most students perceive our school as clean and safe. The majority also say that they would be helped in an emergency. They believe teachers respect them. Also two thirds say they can be in different groups or activities.  There were 45 student respondents to the Climate Survey. Physical Environment • The majority of students (86.7%) felt school buildings were always kept clean Last year this was at 77%, and school grounds were taken care of (88.9%) Last year this figure was 73%. They felt classrooms were nice (100%). Last year this was lower at 73%. Decisions • 57.2% felt students help make decisions. Last year this scored at 59%.  • 60% of student’s felt they always had the ability to be in different groups or activities. Last year this was 66.7%.  Teachers • Students responded that teachers respected them (75.5% always). Last year it was a bit higher at 83.7% always). • Students respecting teachers was perceived at 51.1% always. This was up from 30% always last year. 44.4% felt students respect teachers sometimes this year. This was lower than 69.8% for sometimes last year. • Most students said they always (53.3%)have a good relationship with the teacher. This was slightly lower than last year which was at 58.5%.  • Talking to teachers comfortably about problems, students responded 57.7% always. This was quite an improvement from last year where it was only at 19% always. Safety • 62.2% of students said they always feel safe. This improves last year’s percentage of 56%.  • Students going and coming from school had a 64.4% always feeling safe response rate. Whereas the percentage was higher last year at 79%. • 62.2% of students felt that they always get help if they have an emergency. This is lower than last year’s percentage of 86%. • In terms people who are different being respected 73% said always. This was a jump from last year where the percentage was only at 53.4%   NEXT STEPS • NASA will continue with Character Counts! And its framework of values: The Six Pillars of Character to foster strategies and create tools for a positive school climate. • Continue with bullying prevention schoolwide assemblies. • Continue with end of the month behavior and recognition schoolwide assemblies. • Continue with monthly ‘Lunch with the Principal’ recognition events. • Implement safety assemblies.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
28102800000000|Napa County Office of Education|6|All students are annually surveyed using the CA Healthy Kids Survey. Napa COE had an 85% participation rate on the CHKS in 2018. In most areas, results from the fall of 2018 are trending up over the results from 2017.  87% of students report having a high level of connectedness at school (which is up 8% points from 2017). 88% of students report that there are other caring adults at the school (which is the same from 2017). 89% of students feel that teachers have high expectations for the students (which is up 2% points from 2017). 61% of students feel the school is safe or very safe (up 3 % points from 2017). 16% of student report they have been verbally harassed on campus (down 3% points from 2017). 43% of students report that they have interesting opportunities at school and things that make a difference (down 9% points from 2017). Based on the results, we will continue to provide the academic, behavior, and social-emotional programs to support our students. We will also explore ways to increase interesting and engaging real-world experiences and curricula to ensure our students have success in school and beyond.  **In 2017, students took the CA Healthy Kids Survey after being out of school for two weeks in October due to the Napa/Sonoma County fires and the results from 2017 are a bit lower than those in 2016. Napa County Court and Community School await the results from the fall 2018 CA Healthy Kids Survey to see if the results are trending up.  In 2017, 79% of students report having or feeling a moderate to high level of connectedness at school. 88% of students report that they moderately or strongly agree that there are other caring adults at the school, 87% of students moderately or strongly feel that the teachers have high expectations for the students. 58% of students feel that the school is safe or very safe. 19% students report they have been verbally harassed on campus, and 52% of students report they have interesting opportunities and things that make a difference at school.  Results from fall 2016 follow: 80% of students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school (24% increase over the 2015). 90% of students report that there are other caring adults at the school. 91% of students feel that the teachers have high expectations for the students. 57% of students feel that the school is safe or very safe. 20% students report they have been verbally harassed on campus. 61% of students report they have interesting opportunities and things that make a difference.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
28662666026983|Napa Valley Language Academy|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered during the 2018-19 school year. The results serve to measure Student Climate for NVLA. We had 91% fifth grade students participate in this survey. Our BEST Team in conjuction witho our conselor utilized CHKS data to drive goals and action steps to support school climate. According to our Kid's Healthy Survey from Fall 2018: 76% of our students felt connected to school, 73% felt like they had caring adult relationships, 82% felt safe at school. All those measures are above state average results. In addition, 95% of students feel like they do their part in following directions in class, follow the rules during recess and lunch, and are nice to their peers.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
28662660000000|Napa Valley Unified|6|The data used for this Self-Reflection, comes from the Healthy Kids Survey. There are a few important positive trends regarding NVUSD’s wellness survey. First, Academic Motivation (willingness to work hard on school assignments) is quite high. 5th grade reports the highest levels of motivation, 81%, with 80% reporting so in 7th grade, 73% in 9th grade and 71% in 11th grade. Rates of reported bullying incidents are low; 34% for all students at the secondary level, and in elementary 81% of students report that their schools have clear rules around bullying and that when students report bullying, teachers respond accordingly. Substance abuse rates are also low in NVUSD. At elementary, roughly 20% of all students report trying alcohol, using inhalants or trying marijuana. At secondary, 1% of 7th graders, 6% of 9th graders, and 14% of 11th graders report ever being drunk or high at school.  More concerning trends exist in secondary, particularly among LGBTQ and Transgender populations. Across the board on all indicators 11th grade and students in Non-Traditional (Alternative) Schools had the lowest reported motivation rates, felt the least connected to caring adults, and had the highest reported substance use rates. In the areas of School Safety, LGBTQ and Transgender students were bullied at double the rate of other students, experienced double the rates of sadness and loneliness and were three times more likely to have considered suicide than any other demographic subgroup.  To counter these statistics, NVUSD is in year two of a five-year roll out for Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). MTSS is a referral and identification process for all students. The purpose of the MTSS process is to identify student academic and behavioral health needs early, put supports in place in a timely manner, so as to ameliorate the deficits and struggles the student may be experiencing, before they result in chronic failure and/or disciplinary outcomes. It is also meant to support the understanding of educators and other NVUSD stakeholders about the different kinds of support students need; Tier 1 - whole class supports, Tier 2 - additional supports or programs for fully-included students, or Tier 3 - programs and supports which place students outside the general education classroom for part or all of their day. The completion of this implementation process will result in wrap-around services for students which consider varied options for support which facilitate their progress toward becoming college and career ready.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37682210000000|National Elementary|6|In the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) 49% of all 5th grade students at the National School District (NSD) participated in the survey during the month of February 2018. The survey participants were asked to complete the “Core” Survey. The percentage of males that participated was 51% and the percentage of females that participated was 49%. This survey gauges student responses in four main areas: School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, Disciplinary Environment, and Lifetime Substance Use. The data was compiled by WestEd and is submitted for district review, data analysis, planning, and action. The area of School Engagement and Supports indicate the following: 57% reported high average of school connectedness, 54% reported high average of academic motivation, 79% reported feeling safe at school, 87% indicated that students are treated with respect and only 15% indicated that they had experienced in their lifetime an understanding of alcohol or drug substance use. Of the students that participate in after school programs, 20% attend 5 days a week. Most students feel supported in school, cared about by the adults in school, and that there are high expectations from the adults in school. However, meaningful participation in school and academic motivation were on the moderate to low end of the scale. Students indicated that they like to do things to be helpful at school and they want to be given more chances to engage in decision making at school, how to solve school problems and participate in more interesting school activities. The NSD continues to work on promoting Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS). Three of our schools have gained Platinum medal status and six schools gained Gold medal status and one school gained silver medal status for the 2018-19 school year from the PBIS California Coalition. Restorative Practices continue to be a part of the culture within the NSD as an integral part of conflict resolution.  National School District has trained all certificated staff in Restorative Practices.  All certificated staff have been trained in Crisis Prevention Institute training for de-escalation techniques.  NSD has also implemented a districtwide initiative with a School Counselor at each site focusing on Social Emotional Learning (SEL) using the  Sanford Harmony curriculum as a part of our Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS).|2019-10-23|The California School Staff Survey (CSSS) is relevant to understanding the progress from the staff point of view and provided their input as to the climate related to the school community. The CSSS survey provides information on the degree to which staff perceives that their school has a learning and working environment that is safe, supportive, caring, collegial challenging and engaging, with norms and standards that encourage academic, behavioral, social and emotional success. As a result of the data, NSD will continue to discuss how we can reflect on the surveys and how to use the data generated to ensure that our programs evolve in a positive manner.|Met|2019
37681890118323|National University Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
37683380137802|National University Academy 1001 STEAM|6|1001 creates a safe zone for our multicultural families.  Data reflects that our families bring students to our school because of this reason.  We believe that safety should be our first priority.   Our areas of growth are students knowing expectations, and feeling a sense of belonging and connectedness with other students. While our survey results were positive but we still need to work on students gravitating into groups which they identify with.  We have implemented restorative practices to integrate groups that normally do not socialize.  Another change is the students use of technology and social media.  We are working on norms in our social media class.  We will soon have outside speakers talk to our students about values, character and inclusivity among all our student population.   Administration is also aligning our discipline model with our tiered interventions in such a way as to ensure students understand norms and values at our campus.|2019-11-20||Met|2019
37103710138594|National University Academy Dual Language Institute|6|This is in progress for the 2019-2020 school year. The 2018-2019 school year’s School Climate survey was particularly informative in grades 6-8. Students had noticed some areas in which the building was in poor repair. This was mostly in reference to lighting and ceiling tiles. Additionally, middle school students felt that they needed their own space for socialization and recreation. The repairs were addressed immediately. Middle school students were allowed to gather in an area designated for grades 6-8 only every morning. Then this year, an eating/play area was created specifically for middle school students.|2019-04-16|Through visiting classrooms and having grade cluster meetings, NUA-DLI has determined that there is a level of competition during playground games which is disproportionate to the games themselves. The administration and staff see this as a challenge in the area of school climate and we have worked diligently to shift the culture by having specific and targeted conversations about kindness and sportsmanship with various classes and individuals.|Met|2019
30103060138800|National University Academy Homeschool/Independent Study Orange County|6|This is in progress for the 2019-2020 school year. The 2018-2019 school year’s School Climate survey participants are no longer with our current program.  A new survey will be administered this year to get a better view of how families view school climate. High school was also added this year so a survey regarding high school students is also needed to see "big-picture" view of the school as a whole.|2019-05-20||Met|2019
34752833430659|Natomas Charter|6|Natomas Charter School prides itself in creating a small, supportive learning environment for all students. Students have opportunities to be involved in school decisions. The overall small school environment creates a place in which students are treated and respected as individuals. To assist with this effort, NCS has three social emotional counselors and collaborates with California State University to have counseling interns. The school continues to refine initiatives such as WEB (Where Everyone Belongs) in middle school and Link Crew in high school to provide additional student leadership opportunities and peer-to-peer mentoring. These programs were expanded to have peer-to-peer academic support as well.  In addition, students in 3rd-12th grade participate in an annual, nationally normed school climate survey, and provide feedback on the school environment and their teachers. Key findings from the student survey regarding school safety include: 77% (+5%, 99th percentile) of 3rd-5th grade students report feeling safe at school. These are results are consistent across student subgroups 78% (+3%, 90th percentile) of 6th-12th graders report feeling safe at school. The sense of safety is slightly higher for high school students, but the results are overall consistent across subgroups.   Key findings from the student survey regarding school connectedness include: 82% (0%, 60th percentile) of 3rd-5th grade students report positive connections to school. These are results are consistent across student subgroups 76% (+5%, 90th percentile) of 6th-12th graders report positive connections to school. The sense of connectedness is slightly higher for middle school students, but the results are overall consistent across subgroups.  In our second year collecting this data we experienced growth over the baseline year. We will continue to use the results of the survey each year to refine our practices. Overall, Natomas Charter School tends to perform well in all areas measured under school climate. The school will continue to invest in programs that ensure students are well connected to school, such as WEB and LinkCrew. Additionally, the school is focusing all professional development on implementing effective strategies to support academic, behavioral, and socioemotional learning. We expect these professional development activities to help us sustain and grow in the areas of school climate.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
34752830112425|Natomas Pacific Pathways Prep|6|NP3 administers parent and student surveys at least once every two years. The parent survey was designed to vary ways in which feedback was gathered. NP3 uses the information to reflect and improve upon practices and programs. The parent survey covers topics such as school safety, communication, environment, and learning. Our survey results indicate that over 99% of parents felt like their child was safe on campus and 95% of parents felt like their child had a good relationship with at least one adult on campus and the Advisory Program was a benefit to their child. 95% of parents also reported the school communicates effectively and regularly. The survey also provided details on volunteer and school activity interests and feedback on other school opportunities. The survey questions are directly related to LCAP goals, which directly impact the school and grade level goals. The student survey mirrors the parent survey and asks students about course offerings, rigor, school climate and safety, and extracurricular events. The student survey indicates that 93% of students feel safe on campus and over 90% of students believe the school promotes student learning and success.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
34752830134049|Natomas Pacific Pathways Prep Elementary|6|1. Data: In a survey given to students at the end of the 2018-19 school year, students shared that they value their relationship with their teachers and adults on campus. Students feel safe, listened to and cared for. They enjoy coming to school. Students rank friends, teachers and leadership as their favorite part of learning. Math outranked all academic areas, including specials and recess time, as student's favorite learning focus. The biggest take away was that any interpersonal relationships ranked higher than any academic area.   2. Meaning: A strength of NP3 is the relationships that have been built are the most important thing to our students. A challenge we discovered is that we have 27% of students who are English Language Learners and their struggles showed in students' perception of reading and writing. Students ranked reading and writing the least enjoyable out of all core academic subjects. Although the diversity of our school community is an important part of our school culture and is a strength, it can also pose as a barrier. Communication to parents can be improved by translating school to home communication in families home language.   3. Use: NP3 school's administrative team met to disaggregate the data of the student survey. The meeting allowed our schools to analyze our strengths, challenges and action items. NP3 Elementary will focus on engagement strategies with students, especially during reading and writing instruction. In regards to our communication to families, we are currently researching web based communication platforms that are able to translate communication in over 100 different languages.|2019-10-15|NP3 Elementary is a Leader in Me school. Leader in Me is based on student feedback and students leading their own learning. Students are a large part of leading our culture and their feedback is critical. We get feedback from students formally using surveys, but also informally through verbal inquiry. Because relationships are such an important part of NP3's culture, we have built strong relationships with students. These relationships allow us to maintain a strong pulse on what is happening on campus. In addition, every year as a staff we come together to analyze our school culture. as is evidenced by standards outlined by the Leader in Me.|Met|2019
34752830120113|Natomas Pacific Pathways Prep Middle|6|1. Data: In a survey given to all NP3 Middle School students at the end of the 2018-19 school year, students shared that they value advisory and feel that it’s an important class and the main purpose of the class is to build community and to create and monitor their learning. Over 90% of students report feeling safe, that they’re getting a great education and that staff and teachers are there to help them learn. Philosophically, NP3 wants to help build internal motivation in students. The biggest take away was that students reported that the thing that motivates them to be successful in school is their grades and themselves, followed by family  and teachers. This shows that we are accomplishing our goal of building internal motivation and that the relationships they have with adults in their lives, on or off campus, are important to them.    2. Meaning: A strength of NP3 Middle School is the relationships that have been built on campus. Students understand the purpose and reason why we do things, such as Advisory. We are a Leader in Me school and students are encouraged to practice using the Leader in Me 7 Habits. Although we practice these habits on campus, a quarter of our students report that they feel they do not apply the 7 Habits in their life or at school. We will create a goal to address this challenge, as we feel the 7 Habits are habits that impact student success, not just in school, but throughout their life.  3. Use: NP3 Middle School's administrative team met to disaggregate the data of the student survey. The meeting allowed our school to analyze our strengths and challenges. After analyzing the data, NP3 Middle School decided to put our focus on continuing our Advisory program and increasing life skill learning by broadening the focus of our enrichment classes. Students were asked what enrichment classes they would like to see and they had some great ideas. Students are hoping for enrichment classes with a focus on engineering, languages other than Spanish and gaming. We value student voice and will take these suggestions into consideration when planning our schedule for 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
34752830000000|Natomas Unified|6|NUSD surveys students in grades 4 through 11 on their perceptions of academic support, school safety and school connectedness. These survey questions are part of a social emotional climate culture survey used across the California by large urban districts in the CORE Collaborative. Results of the School Climate Surveys were shared with the Board of Education and Natomas stakeholders on September 11, 2019. For students in grade 4, 88% reported feeling safe and 90% reported feeling connected to school. For 8th grade students, 87% reported feeling safe or neutral about that question. Also, 83% reported feeling connected or neutral about that question. For 11th grade students, 92% reported feeling safe or neutral about that question and 83% reported feeling connected or neutral about that question.  In 4th grade there was a slight decrease in feelings of safety and connectedness but in 8th and 11th grade there were large increases from the year before.|2019-09-11||Met|2019
01611190119222|Nea Community Learning Center|6|Nea surveys Learners grades 5th-12th twice per year. This is carried out electronically through Learners' school email accounts. These surveys were created and are continuously revised by the standing School Culture Committee. This Committee is comprised of staff members who regularly meet, set goals, and develop actionable steps to assess the school's progress towards the goals. The learner survey focuses on a variety of items that impact their experience at the school.   Survey results showed that the school received very high marks on portions including communication, safety, and relationship with adults on campus. Nea’s school culture has been consistently accepting. Learners have overwhelmingly felt accepted at Nea. Some of the highest marks on the survey were in the area of feeling connected to the school and staff.   The survey results did show that for some, there are times learners do not feel that their opinions are accepted or heard by staff. In response, Nea has been strengthening its Restorative Practices within the program. This is a focus within Professional Development strands, and it is the basis of our discipline model. Additionally, Nea staff worked on an extensive Equity PD, and staff members have the opportunity to work with an Equity consultant. This is an area that Nea will collect more data around to understand the cause of this result.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
36678010000000|Needles Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
19647336018287|Nestle Avenue Charter|6|67% of students felt they have a voice.  75% of students felt encouraged to make their own decisions. Overall Parent Engagement was 96%. Parent Participation in survey was 30% (135 respondents). Our goal is to increase parent participation by 4% to 40%. An analysis of data showed that parent participation was hampered by unsuccessful communication strategies. Our strategy is to increase communication through the use of Connect Ed (emails, phone and text messages) and through help from our PTA partners. Our strength is our students.  Our challenge is to increase parent involvement.|2019-10-24|Many of our parents are English Language learners, thus our communication efforts are hampered by not being able to provide communication in the many languages that comprise our school. Although we have many Farsi-speaking staff members and some Hebrew speaking staff, we have been unsuccessful so far in finding staff who are fluent in both English and Russian.  We will continue to seek a Russian/English speaking TA to provide better community relations with our Russian-speaking families.|Met|2019
37683956040513|Nestor Language Academy Charter|6|Nestor Language Academy administers a local school climate and LCAP survey to all students in grades 3-8.  In addition, a parent version of the survey is also administered.  Lastly, a school culture survey is administered to all school staff.  In 2018-2019, 150 parent responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed.  353 student responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed. 43 staff responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed.   LCAP Culture Surveys indicate an average score as following on each survey: Students:   3.25 average, representing flat results from 2018.  No significant differences exist for student groups. Parents:  3.50 average, with an increase from 3.21 in 2018. Staff:  3.6 average,  which is relatively flat from 3.66 in 2018.   Key learnings from the survey results include the following generalizations: LCAP survey data indicates, greater overall satisfaction on the part of parents,  with the greatest growth in the area of promoting academic success for all students.  Progress was also made on appealing and nutritious meals, yet this remains an area of improvement. LCAP student survey data average remained relatively flat.  An area of strength is students feeling as though their teachers believe in their ability to succeed.  Another area of strength is clear rules and expectations for behavior.  LCAP staff survey data indicates strengths in the areas of teacher collaboration, professional development and unity of purpose.  An area of improvement includes collaborative leadership.      Through the culture surveys and LCAP input process, a need for building collective efficacy and teacher leadership was identified as a means of further improving school culture.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
29663406112593|Nevada City Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
29663400000000|Nevada City Elementary|6|1. The CHKS was administered to students in the 6-8 grade span within our TK-8 district, and given to all TK-8 parents and staff in Winter of 2018. Participations rates for students: grade six: 67%, grade seven: 82%, grade eight: 89%. Key learnings: Overall very positive school climate from parents and staff.  Students were very positive in 6th grade but overall scores decreased from 6th grade to 8th grade. 2. Strengths: For students in sixth-eighth grades 94-96% reported feeling safe at school. Students reported that they are always trying to do better in their schoolwork and that the school staff want them to do their best and respect differences in students.  Areas for growth: From sixth to eighth grade, students who felt either moderately or a low connection to school increased from 24% to 63%. Low academic motivation similarly increased from 3% to 41% in eighth grade. The third area where students felt less connected was in the area of meaningful participation.  The percentage of students that felt that they helped decide rules or activities, or that their opinions mattered, decreased between sixth and eighth grades.  Challenges: Identifying what changes can impact the areas and opportunities for growth.  Barriers: Time and personnel in a small district. 3. The CHKS data will be reviewed on several Early Release Days by the Middle School 6-8th grade staff to identify trends, brainstorm ideas, then create and implement and plan.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
29102980114330|Nevada City School of the Arts|6|DATA: NCSA gives both the CHKS survey and a student survey. On average, over 78% of students are engaged, feel safe, and are happy at school. MEANING: Academic interest seems to have waned since last year, but we did see an increase in overall satisfaction of students. 91% of students of color or students who identify as multiracial indicated they felt the school respects all races and cultures. NCSA has been doing a great deal of work around this topic and the results appear positive.  USE: We have adopted a standards based model of grading and increased academic expectations. We adopted school wide behavior expectations, continue to use the Positive Discipline method of discipline, and use mindfulness in many classrooms and hold a Mindful Time Out for misbehavior at recess. Referrals have been reduced by 90% thus far and overall discipline issues have decreased.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
29102980000000|Nevada County Office of Education|6|A local survey was given to students at both Earle Jamieson and Sugarloaf Mountain regarding school safety and their connectedness to school.  The key findings show that students feel safe and connected to their teachers. o Survey sample included 13 students from EJ and 5 students from Sugarloaf Mountain o 92% of students from EJ and 80% of students from Sugarloaf Mountain reported feeling safe at school o 65% of students from EJ and 100% of students from Sugarloaf Mountain reported an overall positive school connectedness o 77% of students from EJ and 100% of students from Sugarloaf Mountain reported they are treated respectfully by their teachers and staff While our survey sample is small, the social emotional well-being of our students and staff are a primary area of focus in our programs.  We serve students who, for the most part, have a reduced capacity of social emotional skills and have had childhood trauma experiences.  Therefore, it is paramount we address and serve these areas of need on an ongoing basis so students feel safe, connected and are in an environment conducive to positive learning experiences.  Our staff will be engaged in trainings this year building capacity in the area of social emotional learning and trauma informed practices where strategies are integrated from curb to classroom and home.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
29663570000000|Nevada Joint Union High|6|NJUHSD administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey to parents, staff, and students grades 9 and 11 on a yearly basis. The three-year change recorded for the 2018-19 school year reflected a 21 point decrease in our District School Climate Index score. This is consistent with decreases of 18 points in the State Percentile score and 16 points in the Similar Schools Percentile score. Significant decreases were reported in Opportunities for Meaningful Participation (45 pts), and Low Physical/emotional Violence Victimization (21 pts).  Additional indicators from our district LCAP Survey: 90% of parents, 88.3% of students, 93.6% of certificated staff, and 83.6% of classified staff report students feel physically safe at school. 86.9% of parents, 70.1% of students, 77.3% of certificated staff, and 70.9% of classified staff report students feel emotionally safe at school. 81.2% of parents, 66% of students, 69.3% of certificated staff, and 61.8% of classified staff report students feel involved and engaged in their school culture.   Our district schools continue to examine our efforts to provide opportunities for student disconnectedness. Activities and programs such as Week of Welcome, Breaking Down the Walls and Athlete Committed are in place in an effort to develop positive school climates and culture. In addition, we continue to emphasize the importance of building individual relationships with students, and we are imploring strategies around restorative practices and trauma-informed instruction in the 2019-20 school year. Results have been shared with our stakeholder groups and we will continue to plan and implement activities targeted at addressing the decreases reported in the CA Healthy Kids Survey.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
45701690137117|New Day Academy|6|New Day Academy (NDA) is a Personalized Learning/Independent Study charter school. While the majority of a student's daily instruction occurs at home with the parents, students receive instruction at the school’s resource center in Shasta County, in the community through extracurricular vendors, and/or attendance at community colleges. NDA’s Redding Resource Center is key to the school’s climate and is used for internal and state assessment, tutoring, special education services, writing classes, grade level math instruction, a college and career course, a high school leadership class, drama classes, grade level STEAM sessions, and Robotics.   The school has a site safety plan in place that ensures student and staff safety. NDA knows at all times what staff, students, parents, and visitors are in the facility. The 2019 surveys indicated that all stakeholders believe the resource center is safe, clean and well maintained.    NDA is dedicated to creating a climate of open communication and connectivity with all stakeholders.  Teachers have direct and consistent communication with their assigned families creating close relationships and cooperation. The school is committed to building a strong school community.  One tool used to create that community is Parent Square, an internal communication system used to notify staff, parents, and students about school activities, field trips, and updates important to the school operations.  Our school encourages interaction between families by offering parent workshops, monthly field trips, parent meetings, and Advisory Council meetings. Educational opportunities offered at the resource center encourage peer interaction and create a positive local school climate.  NDA parents and students consistently report that they feel connected and pleased to be part of our school family.   In order to measure the school's local climate and stakeholder perceptions, NDA developed surveys for Parents, Students grades 5-8, and High School Students which included questions specifically designed and tailored to the uniqueness of our school programs and student population.  The surveys were completed in the spring of 2019. Results are shown below.|2019-10-10|Spring 2019 Survey Results: Parent Survey - 149 respondents 95% responded that NDA promotes academic achievement for all students and 5% responded they do not know. 98% responded that NDA provides access to a wide variety of courses and curriculum. 88% responded that they are very satisfied and 8% are satisfied with their NDA Teacher. 100% responded that their children are safe when visiting the school site. 100% responded that they would recommend NDA to others.  Grades 5-8 Survey - 58 respondents 97% responded that they like working with their NDA Teacher. 76% responded that they are proud of their academic progress and 19% are unsure. 100% responded that they would recommend NDA to friends.  High School Survey – 57 respondents 97% responded that they are supported or encouraged by their NDA Teacher. 85% responded that they are proud of their academic progress and 15% are unsure. 98% responded that they are satisfied with the curriculum available for their use. 99% responded that they would recommend NDA to friends.|Met|2019
19647330102541|New Designs Charter|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: New Designs Charter School administered a local student survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  Students in grades 6-12 participated and completed the student survey, an 85% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES  Students were asked to share their perceptions across a range of issues.  • 54% felt the school was welcoming and supportive of them at both the academic and the social-emotional level. • 79% felt the school environment was safe.  • 65% agreed that their teachers had confidence in them and challenged them appropriately. • 87% felt the school provided them the technology and supplies they needed to succeed.  • 77% felt the school was clean and in good repair.  Survey findings were shared with stakeholders (students, staff, teachers, and board).  The Principal and school staff will continue to work diligently to improve school climate and student connectedness on a schoolwide basis.   For the 2019-20 school year, the Principal will administer the Panorama student survey, in order to gather student input on school connectedness, school climate, and safety that will inform all stakeholders, in the school’s program and support the ongoing schoolwide improvement cycle.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
19647330120071|New Designs Charter School-Watts|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: New Designs Charter School - Watts administered a local student survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 183 students in grades 6-12 participated and completed the student survey, an 89% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES  Students were asked to share their perceptions across a range of issues.  • 42% felt the school was welcoming and supportive of them at both the academic and the social-emotional level. • 75% felt the school environment was safe.  • 47% agreed that their teachers had confidence in them and challenged them appropriately. • 67% felt the school provided them the technology and supplies they needed to succeed.  • 67% felt the school was clean and in good repair.  Survey findings were shared with stakeholders (students, staff, teachers, and board).  The Principal and school staff will continue to work diligently to improve school climate and student connectedness schoolwide.   For the 2019-20 school year, the Principal will administer the Panorama student survey, in order to gather student input on school connectedness, school climate, and safety that will inform all stakeholders, in the school’s program and support the ongoing schoolwide improvement cycle.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
01612420000000|New Haven Unified|6|Last year, over 3600 students, in grades 5 to 12, were surveyed. Responses were disaggregated by school, grade, gender and ethnicity. We identified strengths including students generally feeling safe; describing academic support from their teachers; and developing strong relationships with their peers. These continue to demonstrate improvements over time.   In 18-19, there were improvements in the school climate data over the prior year in areas of safety, connectedness, and community. Our student survey showed 86% of students feel safe, an increase of 6 percentage points. At our high school, the percentage of students reporting that they feel safe at school increased from 80 to 85%, and at the elementary schools, the percent feeling safe was 90%     Last year, 81% of our students reported having a meaningful connection with caring adults. This is an increase over the prior year, by 5 percentage points. Eighty-five percent of students had an adult at school that believed they would be successful; 80% had adults at school to talk to about academic concerns, and 72% had an adult to communicate about non-academic concerns. There were improvements in all of these areas in the 2018-19 year. There have been efforts to expand and support communication at school.   These data complement questions asked on the CHKS and mimic the upward trends in 2018.  For NHUSD 5th graders, on the CHKS in 2018, 82% reported feeling safe at school “all to most of the time” and 91% reported feeling safe “all to most of the time” coming to and from school. Our 2018 CHKS secondary safety results differ slightly, with a high portion of “neutral” responses (34% to 46%), but 10% or fewer reporting that they feel safe.  These areas were improved based on the prior 2016 CHKS. The growth is also reflected in state-wide results, which shows a percentage point increase in perception of safety for 5th graders between 2016 and 2018 (from 88% to 89% to 93% in 2019) and of secondary safety which saw gains between 2016 and 2018.   In 2018, 97% of our 5th graders reported moderate to high levels of school connectedness on the CHKS, in contrast with 86% of the state in 2018 and 80% of the state in 2019. The secondary CHKS survey indicated that approximately 80% of students across the grade spans had moderate to high level connectedness, with most exhibiting moderate, in comparison to 86% of the state in 2018 and 80% in 2019.     In our 2018 report, we described how more attention would be paid to school climate, and this has resulted in an upward trend in 18-19. This included the development of the district-wide Health and Wellness Goals and individual implementation of approaches at the elementary and middle schools. Sites have been engaged with using approaches including PBIS practices, trauma informed practices and Universal Design for Learning to improve engagement.  We will continue to address school climate at all sites and measure progress based on locally developed instruments and|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647330111211|New Heights Charter|6|New Heights Charter School has conducted our Caring School Community Survey each year. The survey asks students, parents, and staff similar questions regarding the school climate. Key Learnings: Most students feel a high-level of connectedness and belonging at New Heights. Another area of strength is how students feel about their teachers and their learning. Students report a high degree of satisfaction knowing that their teachers care about them. One challenge the school faces is that a small percentage of students don't feel they belong. To address this challenge New Heights has increased the size of our Student and Family Support Team to work with students with emotional/social challenges. Below, we have included a sample of the results from our student survey of all students in grades 3-8.  Number of students surveyed: 264 students Grades: 3-8 Date: April 2019 Sample of Student Responses: • People of different cultural backgrounds, races or ethnicities get along well at this school: 71% of students agree or strongly agree • My teachers care about me: 95% of students agree or strongly agree • My teachers make me feel good about myself: 90% of students agree or strongly agree • Students support one another: 79% of students agree and strongly agree • At this school, students talk about the importance of understanding their own feelings and the feelings of others: 83% of students agree or strongly agree • I can talk to a teacher or other adult at this school about something that is bothering me: 79% of students agree or strongly agree • The things I'm learning in school are important to me: 89% of students agree or strongly agree|2019-09-11||Met|2019
39686190000000|New Hope Elementary|6|Seventh grade students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) during the 2017-18 school year.  The CHKS is provided to students on an every-other-year basis. The demographics included 52% female and 48% male.  Of these numbers, 77% were Hispanic or Latino. The results showed that 83% felt a high connectedness to the school, which was a 10% increase over the previous CHKS.   On another positive note, 78% of the students felt they were academically motivated. In regards to safety, 74% of the students perceived school as a very safe place. However, students reported some type of harassment or bullying, and 13% were afraid of being beaten up from 0-1 times in the past year (2016-17).  In order to increase feelings of safety for our students, staff, and facilities, a video surveillance system was purchased through the LCAP process.  (As a side note, 57% of the seventh graders were enrolled in the after school program at the time of the survey.)  In order to continue to grow and support our students academically, New Hope Elementary has purchased Chromebooks for each student in all classrooms (TK-8).  We also provide additional technology support, training, and experiences for our students and staff. We have hired an ELD Intervention Specialist, a Reading Specialist, and a Teaching on Special Assignment to support students and staff.  This year we have set up contracts to support our teachers with professional development in the areas of technology, next generation science standards (NGSS), and math.  Academically, over the last three years, we have seen a steady increase in our CAASPP scores in the area of ELA due to increased professional development, new strategies and planning for student growth, and by increasing the expectations for our students.  Students continue to struggle in the area of math, therefore, we looking forward to the extra classroom support and professional development that our staff will receive this year.  In order to support our students social and emotional needs, we have a nurse that is on campus one day a week.  We have also contracted outside services for 3 days a week, for onsite counseling and therapy services, which is up from the previous two days a week.  We have a part time visual artist on campus to provide students with another outlet of expression.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19647330128371|New Horizons Charter Academy|6|NHCA School climate has improved significantly by implementing PBIS, alternatives to suspension and training teachers and families on safe schools.|2019-09-17||Met|2019
39686270117796|New Jerusalem|6|One of New Jerusalem Charter School’s ongoing areas of focus is to involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe. The school is committed to providing opportunities to engage parents and other stakeholders to solicit feedback and use their feedback in the decision – making processes the school has in place. Included in the school’s yearly calendar of events, several programs and events are offered for opportunities to engage with parents and other stakeholders to learn how the school is performing. Events such as  Back to School Night, Open House, Annual Carnival, sporting events, School Board Meetings,  Parent Club meetings, English Language Acquisition Committee (DELAC/ELAC) meetings, and Principal Advisory Committee are just to name a few.  With our review of annual data from the Parent/Community Stakeholder Survey, the data revealed that 93% of parents agree or strongly agree they feel connected to the school and feel the school maintains a positive school climate.  Additionally, 84% agree or strongly agree their child’s teacher keeps them informed of academic progress and behavior on a regular basis.   Areas of Identified Need or Desired Improvements for New Jerusalem Charter School included increased school facilities being clean and in good working condition, as well as students feeling their school is safe.  As the school is working on expanding their reach to parents and other stakeholders, a question on the survey asked which social media option is primarily used to stay connected to school. The data revealed that 61% of the respondents stayed connected with the school by Facebook, 48% by School Website, 8% by School Dashboard, and 4% by Instagram. This information will help to refine our Communication Plan and continue to strive to keep our parents and other stakeholders informed.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
39686270000000|New Jerusalem Elementary|6|New Jerusalem  School District Climate Responses  New Jerusalem School includes one class of 26 Kindergarten students.  Student Survey results included the feeder school New Jerusalem Charter School that houses Grades 1-8.  During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 163 students in grades 1-5 and 86 students in grades 6-8 who responded.                    Results from Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   93% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   81% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   84% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   83% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   79% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   79% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.  Summary of Key Indicators:  Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.                 With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed: • a significant increase (+84 students) in participation from previous year data • a strength (93% students) agree of feeling connected at school • an opportunity for improvement (79% students) agree their school as safe|2019-10-17||Met|2019
39686270130864|New Jerusalem Online|6|New Jerusalem Online (Formerly Delta Charter Online) School Climate Responses                   During the Fall 2018 administration of the Student Climate Survey, there were 19 students who responded.  This school was formerly named Delta Charter Online and the data is consistent with the prior school name.  Results from Fall 2018 Student Climate Survey show that:   84% of our students Agree and Strongly Agree of feeling connected at school.   88% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having a high level of academic motivation.   92% of students Agree and Strongly Agree of having adults at school that care about them.   89% of students Agree and Strongly Agree there is a culture of high expectations of behavior at school.   96% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school as safe or very safe.   97% of students Agree and Strongly Agree their school facilities are clean and in good working condition.  Summary of Key Indicators:   Our school goals are as follows: Goal 1: Implement a Standards-Based Core Curriculum, including Reading and Math Interventions, for low performing students: Goal 2: Involve all stakeholders in strengthening learning environments that are effective, engaging and safe: Goal 3: Increase Average Daily Attendance.                 With our review of annual comparative data from the Student Climate Survey, the data showed a significant drop (-30)  in student participation from previous year data.    Additional narrative comments were summarized below:  • Delta Charter Online students highly appreciate the learning methods DCO provides with their curriculum.  • DCO students care for their school and express they have had a great experience with the program.  • Students state they feel safe having a school they can work at home with.  • Students value their learning environment and take pride in attending DCO.    The school is working on addressing the student concerns and celebrating their successes.  The Delta Charter Online Staff is committed to improving the success of their school.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
34674390131136|New Joseph Bonnheim (NJB) Community Charter|6|New Joseph Bonnheim’s results of the School Climate Survey in Spring 2019. 153/180 students in grades 3-6 took the survey. Positive responses to perception of belongingness/connectedness of 80%, an increase from 72.7%  (district average for elementary segment: 68.1%) Positive responses to perception of safety: 72%, an increase from 63.6% (district average for elementary segment: 61.3%).  NJB's increase is attributed to the Leader In Me program, LIFESKILLS to promote social-emotional awareness and an increase in safety drills and procedures to promote safety awareness.|2019-09-03||Met|2019
19647330117614|New Los Angeles Charter|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: New Los Angeles Charter School administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 6-8 students.  A total of 240 students (80% participation rate) in grades 6-8 participated and completed the Secondary version of CHKS. Students surveyed also included socio-economically disadvantaged, English Learners and homeless youth.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings: 2018-19: Participation Rate by grade level: • 40% Grade 6 (n=43) • 100% Grade 7 (n=105) • 91% Grade 8 (n=92)  Chronic absenteeism Q: In the past 30 days, what was the reason(s) for absences: ? 43% Grade 6, 39% Grade 7, 24% Grade 8: Illness ? 6% Grade 6, 9% Grade 7, 1% Grade 8: felt very sad, hopeless anxious, stressed, or angry ? 6% Grade 6, 8% Grade 7, 0% Grade 8: Didn’t get enough sleep ? 0% Grade 6, 9% Grade 7, 2% Grade 8: Had to take care of or help family member or friend  Question: At my school there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me: • Pretty/Very Much True: 60% Grade 6, 77% Grade 7; 74% Grade 8  Question: At my school there is a teacher or some other adult who notices when I’m not there: • Pretty/Very Much True: 59% Grade 6, 80% Grade 7; 71% Grade 8  Questions on School connectedness: • 69% Grade 6, 63% Grade 7; 77% Grade 8 students are happy to be at this school.  • 79% Grade 6, 69% Grade 7, 78% Grade 8 students feel like they’re part of this school.  • 78% Grade 6, 62% Grade 7; and 81% Grade 8 students feel safe at this school.  Our school will utilize the results of the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to improve schoolwide support services, school climate, and increase student participation rates for the CHKS.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
19647330133702|New Los Angeles Charter Elementary|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: New Los Angeles Charter Elementary School administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey.  A total of 17 students in grade 3 participated and completed the survey, an overall 47% participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 1-3 The following are the student survey findings: • 83% agree that teachers and other grown-ups at school care about them all/most of the time. • 63% agree that teachers and other grown-ups at the school make an effort to get to know them all/most of the time.  • 53% feel close to people at school most/all of the time. • 70% are happy to be at this school most/all of the time. • 59% feel like they are part of this school most/all of the time.  • 75% feel safe at school most/all of the time.  Student survey results were shared with the staff, and governing board. The Principal and school staff will research an evidence-based survey to administer in Spring 2019 to use as a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as outlined in Priority 6 and increase student participation rate as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
19647330117911|New Millennium Secondary|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19643520128496|New Opportunities Charter|6|The school does twice the recommended assessments. Every other year is too infrequent to address climate and culture issues, as they have a huge impact on student learning, instructional practices, and community needs.  Our primary assessment data is surveys of students and surveys of teachers done 1-2 times per year.  1. Data: The school learned that there is room for growth and that new teachers may not be familiar with the historical growth and trajectory, so they will need additional training on the practices  that are important for our climate. We learned that teachers and students are largely satisfied with their classes and school. Over 90% of staff and over the same amount of students were satisfied with the school. its quality, and its rigor.  2. The disaggregated data shows that the needs of both teachers and students vary so that we will need to ensure training comes from multiple vantage points and in multiple modalities.  3. USE: As a result, the school will continue developing onboarding assessments and training to acclimate staff in how our school culture is important to us and how we built that culture in service of students and learners.|2019-10-30|n/a|Met|2019
34674390101881|New Technology High|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330111484|New Village Girls Academy|6|Findings reported: New Village Girls Academy administered an internal student survey to measure student connectedness and school climate.  A total of 69 students in grades 9-12 participated, an overall 83% participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  Student survey responses are as follows: • 79% Strongly Agree/Agree that compared to their last school, New Village provides a more positive and supportive learning environment for me.  • 82% Strongly Agree/Agree My school offers me academic support when I need extra help.  • 79% Strongly Agree/Agree My School gives me a chance to learn about subjects that interest me. • 89% Strongly Agree/Agree I feel safe while at school. • 88% Strongly Agree/Agree I feel like my family is welcome at my school.  • 83% Strongly Agree/Agree There is an adult at school who I could talk to if I have a problem.  • 17% Strongly Agree/Agree that students experience bullying at my school.  • 83% Strongly Agree/Agree My school teaches students to get help for their social and emotional needs when they need it.  • 99% Strongly Agree/Agree they have participated in an internship this year.  The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the student survey to improve and expand its Multi-tiered System of Supports (MTSS) of schoolwide support services, communication, support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to increase student participation rates for the student survey to be administered in Spring 2020.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
36678760120006|New Vision Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
19756636120158|New West Charter|6|New West has selected to participate in a new climate survey as part of The Harvard University "Making Caring Common" Project beginning 2019|2019-11-12||Met|2019
01612340000000|Newark Unified|6|Newark Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kid Survey to all students in grades 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th, typically every other school year. All four grades participated in the 2018-19 school year, with a final response rate of: 5th-45%, 7th-75%, 9th – 52% and 11th – 7%. Having reviewed all CHKS data, we selected a few questions across the grades to conduct deeper analysis. These questions covered key areas within the survey: Safe at School, Caring Adult, Meaningful Participation, High Expectation, and Academic Motivation. Our students in grades 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th continue to report strong academic motivation and this is consistent with past surveys. 5th-88%, 7th-72%, 9th-69%, 11th- 65%.  In our elementary schools, 76% of 5th grade students report feeling safe at school. In 7th grade, 62% report feeling safe at school. At the high school, we see these numbers decline, with 43%of students reported feeling safe in 9th grade and 70% of students reported feeling safe in 11th grade.   When asked about a caring adult at school, 5th graders responded 73% most or all the time they feel adults at school cares about them; 7th graders response to a similar question was 57%, 9th grade was 51% and 11th grade was 57%. Some students reported not feeling they have meaningful participating in class. 5th graders report 40%, 7th graders report 22%, 9th graders 21% and 11th graders report 26%. We also looked closely at our student group data and noted our Hispanic/Latino student group percentages are significantly lower than district and peer averages. NUSD has implemented PBIS in all school sites and we will continue to develop these tools and strategies to support student connectedness and feeling safe at school. As a district, we will take a closer look at meaningful participation across all schools to ensure our students feel as though they have a voice and an opportunity to have input into part of the processes of the school they attend. At the secondary level, we have begun to take a closer look at developing meaningful teacher-student relationships and connections between adults and students on campus. Another priority area is to further engage our Hispanic/Latino student populations and also ensure all cultures are honored and celebrated.  In partnership with the Santa Clara County Office of Education and our partners with Alameda County Mental Health we are building an MTSS model that meets both the academic and the socio-emotional health of our students with a focus on our priority student groups. Also, through our partnership with the East Bay Agency of Children (EBAC) and with identified resources in our LCAP for each school site in NUSD, we are providing assistance for principals to continue to support the whole child.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
31668520109827|Newcastle Charter|6|In previous years, the district has administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5 and 7, but this past year was not required to give the CHKS and decided to proctor it's own in-district survey and compare results to the year prior, asking many of the same questions and inserting district-specific questions as well. Key learnings from the survey indicated that there has been growth in the 5th and 8th graders feeling of connectedness, safety, and well-being. Other grade levels provided a baseline to compare future results against. And the percentage of students who have been bullied online or have witnessed bullying was much lower than anticipated, which has led to discussion amongst staff and administration about if this really an accurate statistic, or if students are so desensitized to bullying online that they do not recognize it when it is happening. From our data, we are able to see growth areas in student's overall well-being, their connectedness to at least one adult on campus, and their lack of bullying interactions online and in real life. Growth areas will include student's perceptions of school and increasing the number of students who have a positive perception as opposed to a negative one, and student connection to administration and increasing the relationship building between the two groups. In the past two years, the district has implemented a social-emotional curriculum that works on teaching students skills in some of these areas, and also allows for an open dialogue between the students and the teacher to give both groups a better understanding of the needs our students face as well as a safe space to communicate.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
31668520000000|Newcastle Elementary|6|In previous years, the district has administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5 and 7, but this past year was not required to give the CHKS and decided to proctor it's own in-district survey and compare results to the year prior, asking many of the same questions and inserting district-specific questions as well. Key learnings from the survey indicated that there has been growth in the 5th and 8th graders feeling of connectedness, safety, and well-being. Other grade levels provided a baseline to compare future results against. And the percentage of students who have been bullied online or have witnessed bullying was much lower than anticipated, which has led to discussion amongt staff and administration about if this really an truthful statistic, or if students are so desensitized to bullying online that they do not recognize it when it is happening. From our data, we are able to see growth areas in student's overall well-being, their connectedness to at least one adult on campus, and their lack of bullying interactions online and in real life. Growth areas will include student's perceptions of school and increasing the number of students who have a positive perception as opposed to a negative one, and student connection to administration and increasing the relationship building between the two groups. In the past two years, the district has implemented a social-emotional curriculum that works on teaching students skills in some of these areas, and also allows for an open dialogue between the students and the teacher to give both groups a better understanding of the needs our students face as well as a safe space to communicate.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
19648320000000|Newhall|6|The California Department of Education (CDE) has funded the CHKS since 1997 to provide data that would assist schools in: -fostering positive school climates and engagement in learning; -preventing youth health-risk behaviors and other barriers to academic achievement; -promoting positive youth development, resilience, and well-being. In the spring of 2019, all 5th grade students were given the opportunity to participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey. 66% of all 5th grade students participated in the survey which is an increase of 2% from the prior year. The following are key data points extracted from the survey: * 90% of the students state that teachers and grown-ups care about them at their school * 92% of the students state that teachers and grown-ups believe they can do a good job * 81% of the students report they are happy to be at their school * 85% of the students feel safe at school * 92% of the students feel students are treated with respect * 94% of the students report that teachers and grown-ups make it clear that bullying is not allowed * 95% of the students report that a parent or grown-up cares about their schoolwork The year to year data is very consistent across all indicators and is overall positive. This year the data increased positively in each reported indicator a minimum of 3 percentage points.  Sites have examined their own data and put action steps into place for the 2019-20 school year to continue to improve the number of respondents as well as address any indicator under 80%. In general, students feel connected, like their teachers, and have a lot of support at home.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
50736010000000|Newman-Crows Landing Unified|6|Newman-Crows Landing Unified School District believes that school safety and connectedness are of the utmost importance in educating the students in our district. We believe that students thrive in a safe, engaging environment that provides students with rigorous curriculum, relevant classroom activities and relationships that support student learning.  In February of 2019, we administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to fifth, seventh, ninth and eleventh grade students. Key indicators below provide data on school connectedness and safety based on the CHKS: School Connectedness:  percentage of students reporting Pretty much true or Very much true • 5th:  70% • 7th:  62% • 9th:  56% • 11th:  56% Caring Adults in School:  % of students reporting Pretty much true or Very much true • 5th:  75% • 7th:  58% • 9th:  55% • 11th:  58% Students Feel Safe at School:  % of students reporting school as very safe or safe • 5th:  76% • 7th:  59% • 9th:  60% • 11th: 60% Key Learnings As students move the grade levels, they feel less connected to school and teachers.  The same can be said of feeling safe at school.  This mirrors the data at the state level.  In comparing data by Race/Ethnicity there is not a large discrepancy.  For example, 62% of seventh Hispanic or Latino students felt connected to school and 65% of white seventh students felt connected to school.  There was similar data at all grade levels with minimal discrepancy.   This leads to the conclusion that student Race/Ethnicity is not a factor when considering a student’s connectedness to school.  This is a positive outcome for our sites and staff.   Area of Strength Elementary students feel very connected and safe in school.  Elementary schools have implemented digital communication tools, added site counselors, hold weekly/monthly assemblies, work with parent-teacher organizations, have Afterschool Programs and hold evening events for parents and students.  This is not an exhaustive list but shows the effort being made to connect families and students to the school.   Area for Improvement As a district, we need to focus on improving school connectedness at the secondary level, especially at the high school.  There are many clubs, extra-curricular activities and supports available to students.  A next step maybe to improve outreach and communication with students in order to engage them and improve their feeling of connectedness.  Attendance rates at our school average 95%, so students are attending school but the perception is that they do not feel connected to school, especially in 9th and 11th grades.  Focus groups with students can also provide information on how to improve connectedness. Next Steps Continue to review results and develop plans at each level to improve school connectedness and safety.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
30665970000000|Newport-Mesa Unified|6|NMUSD last administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in February and March of 2018 to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 and will administer it again during the spring of 2020. Since 2015-16, the California Healthy Kids Survey has changed its reporting from "moderate to high agreement" to "yes or strongly agree." In order to compare to the previous results, staff used prior components for analysis.   Key findings for 2017-18 in the area of School Engagement and Supports are as follows: School Connectedness: "I feel close to people at this school; I am happy to be at this school; I feel like I am part of this school; The teachers at this school treat students fairly; I feel safe at my school." Levels of agreement were highest for 5th graders, with 97% reporting moderate to high levels of agreement, as did 92% of 7th graders, 92% of 9th graders, and 90% of 11th graders. Caring Adults: "At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult… who really cares about me; who notices when I’m not there; who listens to me when I have something to say.” 97% of 5th grade students reported moderate to high levels of agreement, as did 89% of 7th graders, 87% of 9th graders, and 88% of 11th graders. High expectations: "At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult… who tells me when I do a good job; who always wants me to do my best; who believes that I will be a success." 98% of 5th grade students, 93% of 7th graders, 91% of 9th graders, and 91% of 11th graders reported moderate to high levels of agreement. NMUSD is proud that a majority of if students feel that there is an adult on campus who cares about them and feel like they are a part of their school.  The annual 2018 -19 LCAP Survey includes school climate questions for students in grades 7 through 12, parents of students in all grades, and staff. In 2018-19, overall, most staff agree with statements such as "my highest priority is to make my students feel safe and welcome at school" (96%) and "I believe that a student's academic success can be influenced by their emotional and behavioral well-being” (98%). However, less than half of staff agree that truancy prevention training is sufficient to effectively support students (43%). This is significantly higher than last year, however. Staff are less likely than students or parents to agree that the district has adequate staffing levels to address mental health and substance use. Just 37% of staff agree that their school has enough staff to support students’ mental health and wellbeing, compared to 69% of parents and 63% of students.   NMUSD will continue to address mental health and substance abuse. Additionally, the district will continue to implement Positive Behavior & Intervention Supports and employ Restorative Practices, and will continue to refine a multi-year plan for strengthening district wide implementation. An area of focus will be overall school connectedness, especially with secondary students.|2019-10-29|NMUSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every two years to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The annual LCAP Survey is administered to students in grades 7-12.|Met|2019
39684860131789|NextGeneration STEAM Academy|6|1) In giving the school climate survey, it was evident that we need to do more to include our families in the decision making processes of the school.   2) Through the survey we learned that we are doing many things well, including making our parents and students feel welcomed on the school site, as well as delivering a high quality education to our students.  We found that our teachers are receiving high quality professional development, focusing on science and language arts, and that teachers feel that their training is appropriate to their teaching. We also found that our efforts over the previous year to implement NGSS science curriculum, and a new ELA curriculum, has been well received by parents and teachers alike.   3) We learned that for communication, parents need to have things advertised to them in a multitude of different ways.  Prior to the survey, we were mainly using the school newsletter.  Now, we are using Facebook, the marquee, the newsletter, email, and classroom communications.  We still have some work to do in communicating during emergency situations, and we are looking into programs that will help us be more effective in this area.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
21654090000000|Nicasio|6|Due to our small student population, the California Healthy Kids Survey would not provide significant results. However, each spring a student survey is administered in grades 5-8 to provide a measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Results from the annual school survey (March 2019) indicate that students in grades 5-8 have a positive perception of both classroom and school climate. The classroom climate is rated as positive by 100% of the students. The school climate is rated as positive by students. When asked “I feel happy to be at this school” 86% of students responded “most/all of the time” and 14% responded “sometimes.” The school was rated safe by students. When asked “I feel safe in my school” 86% of students responded “most/all of the time” and 14% responded “sometimes.” When asked “At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me” 100% of students responded either “very true” or “a little true.” Results of the annual student climate survey are analyzed and discussed by staff, and required actions are identified to address areas of concern.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
39686766042725|Nightingale Charter|6|2018-2019 end of the year PLUS (Peer Leaders Uniting Students) climate surveys (administered to all 4th-12th grade students by grade span). Although different scales are used on the Cal-SCHLS and PLUS surveys to measure student (staff) perceptions, comparison of trends across similar constructs is reported. Overall, elementary and middle school students reported higher levels of school connectedness and safety than high school students, and staff reported lower perceptions than students across both measures. School connectedness was measured through a series of questions about students’ experience with caring adults and opportunities for participation (CHKS) and as an indicator of being “part of the school” (PLUS). About 45% of students reported high levels of school connectedness (CHKS) and more than 60% felt part of the school (PLUS) across each grade span. Additionally, more than 71% of students reported there was at least one adult who cared about them (PLUS), and between 54% through 60% of students reported high levels of caring adult relationships (CHKS). Elementary staff perceived that a higher percentage of adults really cared about students and a higher percentage of elementary staff felt school is a safe place for students than reported by staff at high schools in both areas. Students’ perception of school safety was higher than that of staff. Over 60% of students felt safe (PLUS), and about half of the students felt very safe or safe at school (CHKS). Disaggregation of the PLUS data indicate that across all race/ethnicity, elementary students’ perception of school were more positive than middle and high school students. This trend was evident in both school connectedness (feeling part of the school, knowing a caring adult at school) and school safety. No significant difference was observed across race/ethnicity regarding school connectedness and safety. However, continuous monitoring of disaggregated data may highlight trends that would benefit from targeted outreach and implementation of actions that are culturally relevant to ensure students feel supported at school. The PLUS Program, has been operating in SUSD since 2012 as a data-driven youth-led approach to improving school climate. The district utilizes PLUS school climate data to inform district-wide LCAP actions and accountability, PBIS/MTSS actions and development, and PLUS Program implementation. Each school site also uses it for their own improvement plans. The PLUS program is at 49 school sites in SUSD with a team of student leaders participating in Youth Participatory Action Research (YPAR). In YPAR, student PLUS leaders utilize school climate data to research and develop meaningful actions to implement that address and improve climate conditions for students at their school sites. The PLUS data is also utilized by site administration, leadership teams, and others on campus to make informed decisions to improve their school climates.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
34674390137844|NorCal Trade and Tech|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
04614240110551|Nord Country|6|Nord Country School administers a local survey each year to students. This allows students to provide anonymous feedback about how safe,comfortable and connected they feel in our school community and the effectiveness of our different programs. If LCAP goals are relevant to that age group, those questions are included in the survey. Due to the anonymity of the surveys, we are unable to break out the responses by student groups.   During the 2018-2019 school year surveys were given to all students in grades three through eight.   In the 3rd - 5th grade survey 85% of the students reported that they feel safe at recess, 89% reported that they feel safe in the classroom, 91% reported that they feel comfortable talking with their teacher, and 86% of the students reported that their teacher respects them. In the 6th - 8th grade survey 84% of the students reported that they feel like they are an important part of the middle school, 94% reported that they feel the school promotes a caring environment, 73% reported that they feel comfortable talking with their teachers and 100% reported that they feel safe at school. There were not many changes made in response to the data provided in the surveys.  In order to keep the lines of communication open, we did add 2 comment boxes on campus so students can submit concerns anonymously.  We are looking at Student Risk Screening Surveys that we can administer to our older students in order to help identify those who may be at risk for social, emotional and/or behavioral issues.|2019-09-25||Met|2019
15636930000000|Norris Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to 7th grade students in 2017-18. Below is a summary of the key indicators.   School Engagement and Supports - 71% of students feel a sense of school connectedness - 82% of students are academically motivated - 2% of students were chronically truant - 70% of students experience caring adult relationships in school - 82% of students believe there are high expectations - 34% of students report meaningful participation in school - 46% of students report satisfactory upkeep of facilities - 65% of students report parent involvement in school  School Safety and Substance Use - 69% of students perceive school as very safe or safe - 35% of students have experienced some form of harassment or bullying - 41% of students had mean rumors or lies spread about them - 24% of students have been afraid of being beaten up - 13% of students have been in a physical fight - 9% of students have seen a weapon on campus  Substance Use and Mental Health - 5% of students use drugs or alcohol - 2% of students use marijuana - 1% of students binge drink - 0% of students have been very drunk or "high" 7 or more times - 1% of students have been drunk or "high" on drugs at school - 1% of students smoke cigarettes - 3% of students use electronic cigarettes - 24% of students experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness - 12% of students considered suicide  In addition, parents of K-8 students completed a survey at parent conferences in October 2019. Some of these questions addressed student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Below is a summary of those results. – 95.4% of parents believe the district effectively addresses attendance, dropout, and absenteeism issues. - 95.1% of parents indicate their child/children look(s) forward to attending school each day. – 97.5% of parents indicate their students are safe while at school. - 98.7% of parents indicate their child's school is clean and in good repair.  In general, all of the schools sites in the Norris School District maintain a positive school climate, however, there is always room for improvement and we want to create the best environment possible for all of our students. In an effort to continually improve school climate, all of our campuses implement Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS). At the elementary campuses, there are also behavioral support aides to provide support to students who need guidance in both social and educational settings. At the middle school, they have started the Safe School Ambassadors program as well as the SLED (Students Leading Education) program. These programs give many students from a variety of different backgrounds the opportunity to be involved in leadership on campus resulting in students taking ownership and helping create a more positive school climate.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
35675040000000|North County Joint Union Elementary|6|Every other school year, the District administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 7th graders.  5th grade students must have written permission to participate.  7th grader parents must opt out.  The results were shared at the School Board Meeting in the Fall of 2018.  Based on the survey, 90% of 5th graders felt safe and cared for by all staf. They did not feel that drugs or alohol were an issue on campus.  70% of 7th graders felt safe and cared for at home and school.  A small percentage of students felt that drugs continue to be a concern or had experimented with them.  Based on the results, the District will continue with Wonder Woofs, drug free education, and work to make better connections with students in the classrooms and on campus.|2019-10-10|na|Met|2019
37684520114264|North County Trade Tech High|6|Our staff conducted the Healthy Kids survey in May of 2019 and did not receive the results until October due to a glitch at the reporting group.  Our initial review of the report includes much to be proud of with our student population overwhelmingly feeling safe at our school and feeling that staff is able to connect with them.  As we dig deeper into the data, we will find trends and identify areas of need.  The SSC will review the data on October 29th and can have an opportunity to help weed out critical data.  We can then use the data to help drive our LCAP to reflect the needs identified.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
45700780000000|North Cow Creek Elementary|6|Following is a summary of the responses 161 students provided on the annual climate survey: 80% feel welcomed at school, 82% feel safe and able to learn in the classroom, 87% feel challenged to learn more than just reading and math, 64% feel the students treat each other with respect. A strength is the staff to student relationships while an area of focus is student to student relationships. The school has begun the strategic implementation of PBIS, an SEL focus, and Peaceful Playground as a means for helping students develop more positive and collaborative relationships with one another. The school is also placing a strong emphasis on expanding on the overall culture as we create additional opportunities for students to engage in leadership opportunities. This includes weekly action teams where students are able to work with peers to help in a specific area (maintaining and playground equipment, developing a school newsletter, creating positive posters to be placed around campus, creating and painting new Peaceful Playground games, etc.). The school is utilizing a point system to track student behavior and proactively address misbehavior through Tier 2 and Tier 3 meetings.|2019-03-19||Met|2019
27738250000000|North Monterey County Unified|6|The district’s LCAP goal #3 is focused on increasing student engagement both inside and outside the classroom that involves a variety of actions and services. In an effort to improve student attendance and performance, a focus has been to improve school connectedness through the fostering of caring adult relationships and enhancement of perceived school safety.       The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered in January 2018 and January 2019   to all 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade students in NMCUSD. Students who felt “very much or pretty much” that an adult on campus cared about them: a decrease from 83% to 79% in 5th grade, a decrease from 52%  to 49% in 7th grade, an increase from 40% to 43% in 9th grade, and a decrease from 52% to 47%  in 11th grade. In the area of perception of school safety, the CHKS data showed a decrease in 5th grade from 78% to 69% , a decrease from 60% to 46% in 7th grade, a decrease in 9th grade from 51%  to 37%, and a decrease in 11th grade from 39% to 34% felt safe at school most of the time or all of the time in from 2018 to 2019.       In addition, the district’s attendance (ADA) showed a slight decrease from 2017-2018 to 2018-19 by 0.45% from 94.58% to 94.13%, slightly below the target of 95%. The Student Attendance Review Team (SART) process at each school addressed barriers for students attending school.     From this data, it is clear that School Climate needs to be an area of focus.  Specifically, in terms of adults connecting with students to ensure they feel cared for in addition to a sense of school safety. More information is being gathered to determine a plan of action.|2019-10-24|Performance data on School Climate indicators was collected and reported on the LCAP annual report and shared with stakeholders. Programs were developed to address ways to increase student connectedness to school. Progress in implementation include:  ? District wide staff development on Trauma Informed Schools and Social Emotional Learning ? The development of MTSS teams to provide supports to students in need. ? Addition of five behavior technicians supporting students who need Tier 3 support.  ? Identifying a social emotional curriculum to implement in 2019-20. ? Site teams are developing Tier 1 Climate and Culture teams. ? A focus to teach positive behavior and provide preventative and responsive interventions ? District wide positive attendance campaign to include implementing School Attendance Review Teams to identify and remove barriers, with referrals for wraparound services ? Provide and expand school based mental health counseling at each school ? Updating and implementing comprehensive school safety plans supported by the School Resource Officer. ? Mental health counseling and social work support to students in need.|Met|2019
01612596117972|North Oakland Community Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19101990100776|North Valley Military Institute College Preparatory Academy|6|NVMI administers surveys to students, parents, and staff at least once every other school year. Those surveys contain questions which help NVMI determine the effectiveness of programs, services and successes/areas of growth in accomplishing our stated mission.  The most recent survey, administered in the previous school year, indicated:  *strong satisfaction with overall school climate *a high level of physical and emotional safety *moderate levels of satisfaction with various academic programs *high levels of satisfaction with parental engagement policies and practices *very high satisfaction with athletic program offerings *some dissatisfaction with the perceived equity in the school's citizenship program, but overall agreement that the school's discipline policies are fair *moderate levels of satisfaction with the school's leadership development program; and most importantly *high levels of satisfaction with the school's counseling program and services *a strong belief that administrators are approachable and helpful *satisfaction with the customer service mindset of school support staff *more than 90% agreement or strong agreement with the prompt, "I am highly satisfied with the educaton (I/my child) receive(s) at NVMI.|2019-09-30|NVMI continues to work on providing trauma-informed care to all families and is constantly striving to help all NVMI staff more effectively serve the underserved population we serve.|Met|2019
19647330100776|North Valley Military Institute College Preparatory Academy|6|NVMI administers surveys to students, parents, and staff at least once every other school year. Those surveys contain questions which help NVMI determine the effectiveness of programs, services and successes/areas of growth in accomplishing our stated mission.  The most recent survey, administered in the previous school year, indicated:  *strong satisfaction with overall school climate *a high level of physical and emotional safety *moderate levels of satisfaction with various academic programs *high levels of satisfaction with parental engagement policies and practices *very high satisfaction with athletic program offerings *some dissatisfaction with the perceived equity in the school's citizenship program, but overall agreement that the school's discipline policies are fair *moderate levels of satisfaction with the school's leadership development program; and most importantly *high levels of satisfaction with the school's counseling program and services *a strong belief that administrators are approachable and helpful *satisfaction with the customer service mindset of school support staff *more than 90% agreement or strong agreement with the prompt, "I am highly satisfied with the educaton (I/my child) receive(s) at NVMI.|2019-09-30|NVMI continues to work on providing trauma-informed care to all families and is constantly striving to help all NVMI staff more effectively serve the underserved population we serve.|Met|2019
12101240134163|Northcoast Preparatory and Performing Arts Academy|6|School climate surveys indicate that the great majority of NPA students either agree or strongly agree that the school is successful in maintaining a safe and healthy climate. NPA anticipates that its upcoming survey will yield results similar to those of past surveys. School climate is an ongoing area of emphasis for the school as a whole, including during its weekly all-school meetings, grade level advisory periods, and staff meetings. This emphasis is also reflected in NPA's LCAP.|2019-09-23||Met|2019
12626870000000|Northern Humboldt Union High|6|The three stakeholder groups that were surveyed for school climate (Goal 2 of our LCAP) were students, families and staff.  The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the Spring of 2019 to 9th and 11th grade students to 653 students.  59.06% of the students agreed or strongly agreed that they felt connected to the school.  30.02% of the students felt safe at school in 2019.  These numbers are atypical.  In the previous year the percentage for students feeling connected was 91.78% and the students feeling safe was 59.24%.  This drop was likely a result of a one-time incident that took place during the school year.  Families were surveyed via the 2019 Spring NHUHSD survey.  85 families participated in the survey.  68.24% felt the schools are safe and 76.47% felt the schools are welcoming.  Staff was surveyed in the same 2019 Spring NHUHSD survey with questions specific to staff members.  84.62% of the 39 who participated felt the schools are safe.  79.49% reported they enjoyed coming to school each day.|2019-10-08|NA|Met|2019
45701690129957|Northern Summit Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
12101240137364|Northern United - Humboldt Charter|6|Northern United - Humboldt Charter School administered the School Climate survey to students, staff and parents.  The survey elicited 183 responses from participants.  Participation in the survey is as follows:  89 students, 42 staff and 52 parents participated in the process.  Of the 89 students who participated, 23 students were in the grade span of K-5th.  When asked if they felt safe at their school, students in the K-5th grade span responded with an 85% rate of feeling safe. In the 6th-8th grade, 23 students participated in the survey process.  Of these 23 students, 95.5% believed that Northern United-Humboldt Charter School placed a high priority on safety and felt safe at their school. In the 9th-12 grade, 46 students participated with 95.5% of students responding that they felt safe at their school and that Northern United - Humboldt Charter School places a high priority on their safety.  The same survey was given to parents/guardians, 52 parents participated in the survey.  96.2% of the parents responded that they felt that Northern United - Humboldt Charter School places a high priority on their student's safety.  Moreover, 92.2% responded that they are provided ample opportunities to participate in their student's education.  86.5% of parents feel welcome to participate at school and 88.5% responded that school staff takes their concerns seriously.  Staff participated in the same survey with 43 staff members responding to the prompts provided.  Of the 43 participants, 92.7% strongly agreed that they felt connected to their students.  Staff also responded with an 86.6% that they feel connected to all staff and are regularly able to collaborate.  Overall, based upon the above mentioned percentages, students, parents/guardians and staff feel safe and a strong sense of connectedness to their school.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
47104700137372|Northern United - Siskiyou Charter|6|Northern United- Siskiyou Charter School administered a survey to students in grades K through 12 addressing school climate. There were 23 students who responded.  -When asked if they were happy to be at this school, 100% of K-5th grade students responded with strongly agree, 85% of 6th - 8th graders strongly agree and 85% of 9th - 12th grades responded strongly agree.  -When asked if they feel safe in their school, 100% of K-5th grade students, 80% of 6th-8th grade students and 90% of 9th-12th grade students responded that they strongly agree.  -This same survey was also given to parents with 20 responding. Parents were asked if teachers communicate with parents about students expectations and 95% responded that they strongly agree.  -95% of parents responded that they believe staff takes parent concerns seriously. Teachers also responded to the survey.  -Of the 8 teachers who responded, 100% strongly agreed that teachers feel connected to their students.  -Overall, students, parents and teachers feel a sense of safety and school being connected.  -In response to the data and stakeholder suggestions, to further develop a positive and welcoming school climate, we are increasing our staff training in PBIS.  We have also created a full time counseling position.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
49708700106344|Northwest Prep Charter|6|DATA: LCAP Goal 1 is to create a positive, learning-focused environment and culture for all students. NWP  has taken various steps to provide training and professional development in order to improve the school learning environment. The Quaglia My Voice Surveys (students, teachers and parents) indicated that: 83% of students reported that they "feel school is welcoming and friendly" (compared to 80% the previous year); 86% of students feel they “teachers respect students” (compared to 76% the previous year); 79% of students feel "teachers believe in me and want me to be successful” (compared to 77% the previous year);" NWP’s Healthy Kids Survey was administered during 2017-2018: 79% of 7th grade students and 92% of 9th grade students felt safe at school, 33% of 7th grade students and 31% of 9th grade students felt they have a caring relationship with adult. MEANING: We did not meet our growth targets for our survey results for the 18-19 school year, but we did show some improvement in these areas. NWP’s Crossroads program was very successful – contributing to our significantly improved graduation rates. In our Crossroads program, grade 7 and 8 students focused on exploring their individual interests, abilities, and talents. Grades 9 and 10 focused on exploration of the vast range of jobs and careers available and the different types of colleges and training programs that prepare students for them. Grades 11 and 12 learned how to identify and secure professional internships with organizations and companies that they have targeted. NWP staff provided students with the opportunity to apply the many practical benefits from their academic PBL experience, provide a service to their mentors and their organizations, and to further develop their professional and academic skills and goals. USE: As a result of this data we will continue to focus on school culture (LCAP Goal 1) to reduce the number of behavior referrals to the office and support teachers in developing inclusive teaching strategies by increased counseling services and coaching.|2019-10-02|The Piner-Olivet Union School District was significantly impacted by the Northern California wildfires during 2017-18. The Tubbs Fire destroyed over 5,500 structures and Coffey Park (a neighborhood directly across the street from Schaefer School and our district office), was one of the most densely populated areas in Santa Rosa affected by the fire. About 1,500 homes were destroyed in the small neighborhood.|Met|2019
36103630115808|Norton Science and Language Academy|6|In the fall of 2019, Norton Science and Language Academy conducted a student climate survey to all students in grades 5 through 8 to measure the school’s progress on state Priority 6. Overall, students enjoy the school and their teachers. Teacher-student relationships scored the highest with over 75% of students agreeing that their teachers are supportive and encouraging both academically and emotionally. While 69% of students believe that their school is safe and enjoyable, one glaring concern was the 51% of students who feel their peers do not have the necessary skills to work out disagreements with each other. To rectify this, the school has instilled schoolwide campaigns promoting kindness and anti-bullying. A research-based social-emotional curriculum has been implemented in all grades, K-8, facilitated by teachers and the school’s counselor. Part of this curriculum helps to develop positive student interaction and problem resolution.   67% of students like their school and 81% of students feel the school has clear rules and consequences for behavior. Only 35% of students felt the school was kept clean. As done the previous year, school administrative staff spoke with students about their responsibility and ownership of the campus and how they can help with keeping the campus clean. Additionally, a groundskeeper was hired to maintain PE and recess fields.   In February of 2019,  a student advisory panel was developed to assist staff in understanding student concerns. The panel is comprised of student representatives from grades 4 through 8 along with school administrators. Only 53% of students agreed that they have a voice regarding school policies. With the installation of the advisory panel, the school believes students will feel their voice is being heard and this percentage will improve the following year.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19648400000000|Norwalk-La Mirada Unified|6|Data was collected using a set of professionally created school climate and culture surveys through Panorama. These surveys will be given at least one time annually beginning with the 2018-19 school year. The data will be available in our data dashboard to all sites and district leadership to increase district responsiveness to students, parents, teachers, and classified staff needs and ideas.   The survey was given to all students, parents, and staff in the Winter of 2019. Data was organized and displayed in our Panorama data dashboard and framed through similar demographic populations through our membership in the CORE Data Collaborative. Survey results were reported at site parent meetings in the Spring.  Data was also collected from students in NLMUSD during Winter 2018 using the California Healthy Kids Survey. The survey collected data from students’ about their perceptions of elementary, middle, and high school students on school supports that are available, their level of connection to school, and their academic motivation: • Percentage of students that feel a moderate or high level of school support on the Winter 2018 California Healthy Kids Survey: • 5th Grade: 94% • 7th Grade: 85% • 9th Grade: 75% •11th Grade: 76%|2019-10-21||Met|2019
33736760121673|NOVA Academy - Coachella|6|NOVA Academy Early College High School is located in Coachella and currently serves 232 students in grades 9-12. NOVA Academy surveys with student and parent participation annually to measure a variety of factors related to school climate.  Student surveys showed that 97% of our students believe that teachers expect them to learn and achieve, 90% believe their teachers are supportive and enthusiastic, 90% feel safe at school, 95% think that their teachers are helpful and respectful, and 90% feel safe going and come from school. This is reflected in the overall numbers for the parents in that 91% show satisfaction with the campus overall, and 90% are satisfied with the campus safety. This is a drop from the previous year, and new parent interactions are helping to guide the improvement of the overall satisfaction rates. Additionally, a student focus group was conducted, which allowed students to voice their opinion on matters regarding school safety and satisfaction. 30% of parents and students are dissatisfied with the lunch program, which is an improvement from the previous year, and we strive to continue to work with our provider to create better results for our students’ benefit|2019-10-24||Met|2019
30666700106567|Nova Academy Early College High|6|NOVA Academy Early College High School serves approximately 435 students in grades 9-12 and is located in downtown Santa Ana, California.  NOVA Academy moved to this permanent location in Fall 2016.  NOVA Academy administers a survey to students and parents annually to measure a variety of factors related to school climate.    Survey findings from 2018-19 indicate 95% of parents report that NOVA Academy prepares students to be college and career ready and 96% report that teachers expect students to learn and achieve at a high level.  Further, 96% report that programs at NOVA meet their child’s unique needs and 95% report that classes are appropriately challenging.  90% of students reported an overall satisfaction with the school.   Additionally, 88% reported they feel safe at school.  Traditionally the lowest level of student satisfaction is with the school lunch program, but this level of satisfaction increased from only 33.7% in 2016-17 to 50.6% in 2017-18 and maintained at 50% for the 2018-2019 school year.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
21654176113229|Novato Charter|6|The NCS 5th-8th Grade Students participated in the California Healthy Kids survey for the first time during the 2018-19 school year. The Middle School Student Survey is completed each year in January and the results are presented to the Board and community members. Our goal is to reach 75% or above in each category related to self-responsibility, self-direction, and feelings of safety and inclusion at the school. Over 75% stated a sense of connectedness. 72% indicated they have high expectations and academic motivation.  Over 85% feel very safe or safe at school. Continuing to build and maintain a sense of community, especially in middle school, is a priority for our school leaders. We will continue to support team-building field trips and work with outside programs to deepen our Social Inclusion Program. We continue to identify new leaders in our middle school program. New 7th grade student leaders were identified and joined the Student Social Action Committee at the beginning of the year and trained as playground and classroom mediators.|2019-10-16|Our parent-let group, The Many Hearts Committee, is designed to promote greater understanding and acceptance of diversity in the parent community. The school's ongoing work with outside organizations like Beyond Differences continues to help bolster the social inclusion curriculum that is woven into the class lessons. The faculty and administration are involved with ongoing work with Gender Spectrum as well. Community Teas are offered monthly on campus as a way to support the community. Back to School Night as an informative open house when all parents are encouraged to visit all classes to learn about the curriculum and get to know their child’s teacher as well as other faculty and staff.|Met|2019
21654170000000|Novato Unified|6|NUSD administers the research-based student and stakeholders Youth Truth Survey annually.  2019 survey results indicate that the majority  of students in grades 3-12 feel very safe during the school day and part of the school community. Positive results can be attributed to district initiatives that include counseling for students, community liaisons who help communicate with newly immigrated Spanish speaking students, Restorative Justice program that reduces punitive measures and builds trust among peers, and collaborations with community organizations (Marin Food Bank, $10,000 Degrees College Readiness Program and Novato Police Department School Resource Office, Program) that improve students well-being and educational experiences.   Although majority of students have very positive perceptions regarding school safety and connectedness, there are still some students who do not. During 2019-20,  NUSD administrative and site leaders will work with newly hired Prevention Coordinator  to identify which students need additional support to make them feel safer and more connected at school. Additional counseling has been put in place, and a crisis team has been assembled to help sites during school emergencies.|2019-10-01|NUSD does administer the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grader every other year. Results are studied to identify areas of strength and concern.|Met|2019
51714230000000|Nuestro Elementary|6|Nuestro Elementary surveys every grade level we serve each year to determine students’ and parents’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  We report the results to our local governing board, stakeholders, and the public.  Furthermore, the results are utilized in meetings and LCAP workshops as stakeholders participate in determining the goals and actions for our LCAP.  A revised survey was created and given to stakeholders.   Results showed that 100% of parents agree or strongly agree that Nuestro is a safe place for their children, while 90% of all stakeholders agree or strongly agree that Nuestro is a safe place for their children. Results also showed that 79% of students feel they are safe at school, while 18% of students feel they are bullied at school, although there were some issues with the teacher assistant’s explanation of ‘bullying’ in the very young student classrooms and this was partially responsible for the percentage of 18%.   Lastly, results showed that 49% of students felt the school was a clean place. Survey results have led directly to focusing more time, effort, and resources to improve our school climate and school cleanliness.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
15634040120139|Nueva Vista Language Academy|6|Nueva Vista Language Academy has made significant progress in the area of School Climate in recent years. The staff firmly believes that students need to be in school daily in order to receive a high quality education and be part of a positive school climate.  Therefore, positive attendance rates are a high priority.  Nueva Vista Language Academy is very proud of their attendance record for the 2019-2020 school year: NVLA currently hold a 98.74% positive attendance rate, up .04% from the 2018-2019 school year. Nueva Vista Language Academy has had one day of 100% perfect attendance for the start of the 2019-2020 school year, and several days with a positive attendance rate of 99%. Attendance incentives and an end-of-the-year field trip helps NVLA to keep their current positive attendance rate.   Every year, Nueva Vista Language Academy sets a school-wide theme that guides the climate activities throughout the year.  Taken from L. Frank Baum's The Wizard of Oz, this year’s theme is, “There’s no place like Nueva Vista Language Academy: We have heart; We have brains; We have courage.”  NVLA will take students, parents, and staff down the yellow brick road to a high quality education.  At the end of each academic trimester, students in each classroom will be selected to earn the heart, brain, and courage awards. The theme is also incorporated in their positive behavior intervention system.   NVLA believes that when staff, students, and parents come together, it builds a strong climate for learning.  In keeping with the theme for the year, staff members boarded a yellow school bus and visited the surrounding neighborhood to greet the families and deliver popsicles to the students and their families.  In another way that NVLA celebrates learning, the staff will continue with the tradition of delivering “A Scholar Lives Here” yard signs to the students who make academic growth.  Students and families proudly display their yard signs throughout the community, showing a sense of pride.|2019-10-14|Each year, Nueva Vista Language Academy administers the PBIS Self-Assessment Survey and the PBIS School Climate Survey to staff and students. This survey is given to all students in grades 3-5; NVLA has been surveying students and monitoring the data since 2016. On the PBIS Self-Assessment Survey, the “Implementation Average” for Nueva Vista Language Academy has increased from 60% in Fall 2015 to 63% in Fall 2016 to 68% in Fall 2018.  Meanwhile, on the PBIS School Climate Survey, the average overall score for Nueva Vista Language Academy has remained very strong at 3.33 in Fall 2018 ( 4.0 = “Always” and “3.0 =“Often”). Question number three on the School Climate Survey asks students, “Does my teacher want me to do well?” Approximately 200 students scored an average for this question at 3.86, which shows that students perceive that teachers at Nueva Vista Language Academy want their students to do well in school.  This data is analyzed and used in guiding their decision making throughout the year.|Met|2019
33671573331014|Nuview Bridge Early College High|6|Combined results from 2017-2018 CHKS Grades 9 and 11 show that:   16% of 9th grade students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school.  12% of 11th grade students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school.   38% of 9th grade students report a high level of academic motivation 32% of 11th grade students report a high level of academic motivation  17% of 9th grade students report feeling they have adults at school that care about them 20% of 11th grade students report feeling they have adults at school that care about them  25% of 9th grade students report there is a culture of high expectations at school 28% of 11th grade students report there is a culture of high expectations at school  8% of 9th grade students report feeling they have opportunities for meaningful participation at school (do things that make a difference, do interesting activities, or decide class activities or rules). 7% of 11th grade students report feeling they have opportunities for meaningful participation at school (do things that make a difference, do interesting activities, or decide class activities or rules).  56% of 9th grade students perceive the school is safe or very safe 48% of 11th grade students perceive the school is safe or very safe  *Results taken from the district's CHKS main report in Module A: Core Results Summary of Key Indicators" on page 3.  Our data shows we have work to do in increasing areas such as: school connectedness and meaningful participation. This year, as a result of our CHKS we have decided to review the data as a staff and create an action plan to address these areas.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
33671570000000|Nuview Union|6|Combined results from 2017- 2018 CHKS Grades 5 and 7 show that. 43% of 5th grade students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school 20% of 7th grade students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school  51% of 5th grade students report a high level of academic motivation 40% of 7th grade students report a high level of academic motivation  53% of 5th grade students report feeling they have adults at school that care about them 25% of 7th grade students report feeling they have adults at school that care about them  50% of 5th grade students report there is a culture of high expectations at school 35% of 7th grade students report there is a culture of high expectations at school  16% of 5th grade students report feeling they have opportunities for meaningful participation at school. (do things that make a difference, do interesting activities, or decide class activities or rules.) 10% of 7th grade students report feeling they have opportunities for meaningful participation at school. (do things that make a difference, do interesting activities, or decide class activities or rules.)  69% of 5th grade students perceive the school the school is safe or very safe 54% of 7th grade students perceive the school the school is safe or very safe  *Results taken form the district’s “CHKS main report” in Module A: Core Results Summary of Key Indicators” page 3|2019-11-14|Our data shows that we have some work to do in increasing area such as school connectedness and a culture of high expectations. This year, as a result of our CHKS survey we have decided to form a committee to look at the areas that we did not score as well and work on an action plan to address these area. At each of our school sites, we have dedicated PBIS teaching time and will use that time to specifically design lessons around areas such as school connectedness.|Met|2019
43696250000000|Oak Grove Elementary|6|Oak Grove School District has been engaged in implementations of Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) with the goals of reducing incidents and disciplinary actions, and closing disproportionate suspension rate gaps between Latino and White students. Significant and steady progress has been made with annual suspensions dropping from 843 to 448 from 2013-14 to 2018-19. Similar reductions have also been realized in student behavior incidents with incidents dropping from 12,384 in 2011-12 before district-wide PBIS implementation to 7441 in 2018-19  The district surveyed  5th and 7th graders to complete the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey.  Highlights are listed below: Highlights from California Healthy Kids Survey Question: I feel safe within a positive school environment %  of students in 2016-17: 5th graders: 84% and 7th graders: 71% % of students in 2017-18: 5th graders: 87% and 7th graders: 69% % of students in 2018-19: 5th graders: 80% and 7th graders: 61%  Data points to an increased need in middle schools around student perception of safety.  There will still be initiatives to continue to improve this area. In addition to a PBIS refresh and professional development support at all sites in 2018-19, OGSD will continue to fund Restorative Practice PD for the three middle schools for continued implementation and one District School Social Worker who will be responsible for managing mental health related services through the Student and Family Support Services program.  Through data analysis and goal setting through differentiated assistance, a strategic roll-out of alternatives to suspension will work to further reduce suspensions overall, but with a target to students with disabilities. Therapeutic Crisis Intervention training (TCI) will continue for all site administrators and key support staff.  School Linked Services (SLS) Program Specialists will provide Suicide Prevention Training (QPR), coordinate services with community agencies, align services provided by the district mental health support staff, organize and  facilitate a tiered model of mental health interventions, and respond to crisis situations. Training on socio-emotional learning will be provided to staff and families.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
49708396051890|Oak Grove Elementary/Willowside Middle|6|DATA: CA Healthy Kid Survey was administered to students in 2017/18 (and will be provided again in 2019-2020), as well as a series of parent surveys to gather information related to their beliefs about school safety and student connectedness. 94% of families reported their child feels safe and connected at school. This data indicates that the district exceeded its expected goals. 87% of 5th grade students and 69% of 7th grade students felt school at safe.  48% of 5th graders and 92% of 7th graders feel that they have relationship with caring adults.  These items indicate we will continue our work towards school safety and developing relationships with students.  MEANING: While we continue striving to improve so all students have a positive experience at school, we attribute our success to a variety of factors. Counselors provided in class learning experiences to 100% of the student body population. Overall counselor staffing within the district is 2.2 FTE, with psychologist services increased to .8 FTE.  USES: The district retained staff to fill supervisory positions with qualified personnel which has been important in having students know there is a visible presence to help them connect and feel safe. Front office staff at both campuses help create a positive school culture and provide social/emotional support to students as needed. The Toolbox curriculum has been employed at the elementary level and middle school faculty have continued exploring programs that are best suited to meet their students' social-emotional needs. Staff is receiving training on Restorative Practices and are beginning to implement them at both sites. These and other Social/Emotional Learning tools are being utilized to help students make positive decisions, resolve conflict and learn from their mistakes.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
49708390000000|Oak Grove Union Elementary|6|DATA: CA Healthy Kid Survey was administered to students in 2017/18 (and will be provided again in 2019-2020), as well as a series of parent surveys to gather information related to their beliefs about school safety and student connectedness. 94% of families reported their child feels safe and connected at school. This data indicates that the district exceeded its expected goals.   MEANING: While we continue striving to improve so all students have a positive experience at school, we attribute our success to a variety of factors. Counselors provided in class learning experiences to 100% of the student body population. Overall counselor staffing within the district is 2.2 FTE, with psychologist services increased to .8 FTE.  USES: The district retained staff to fill supervisory positions with qualified personnel which has been important in having students know there is a visible presence to help them connect and feel safe. Front office staff at both campuses help create a positive school culture and provide social/emotional support to students as needed. The Toolbox curriculum has been employed at the elementary level and middle school faculty have continued exploring programs that are best suited to meet their students' social-emotional needs. Staff is receiving training on Restorative Practices and are beginning to implement them at both sites. These and other Social/Emotional Learning tools are being utilized to help students make positive decisions, resolve conflict and learn from their mistakes.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
34674390125591|Oak Park Preparatory Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
56738740000000|Oak Park Unified|6|Although we will continue to monitor our Healthy Kid Survey data, some of the data indicate that  73% of our students perceive themselves as safe on our campus. This past year we added fencing to all our elementary campuses enclosing the campuses. We added strategic fencing to our high school campus as well. The main focus of our Climate of Care staff is to continue to work towards improving the students' connectedness to our schools. No data on the CHKS reveals disparity between student groups.|2019-05-14||Met|2019
45700860000000|Oak Run Elementary|6|Student surveys given spring of 2019 indicate that students value clear disciplinary rules and would like stronger consequences for behavior. Students indicate a very high level of "sense of belonging, " a high level of respect and support from their teachers, and overall sense of enjoyment when they attend school. The school is in the second year of PBIS implementation to address the concerns around clear behavioral expectations. Staff meets regularly to review school wide expectations, analyze behavioral data, and discuss school wide areas of need. Plans are developed and quickly implemented to address problem areas on our school campus. Peaceful playgrounds has been implemented to provide clear rules for all playground games and clear procedures for equipment usage. As a result, playground and school wide behavioral referrals have lessened. Teachers and staff report an overall high level of satisfaction with the two behavioral school wide programs.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
54720170000000|Oak Valley Union Elementary|6|The response rate of the CHKS was 100% for 5th grade and 98% for 7th grade. Key findings are that 5th grade students ( 79%) feel more connected to school than 7th graders (67%). This could be that middle school students begin to have "other" issues such as relationships that are impeding their thoughts versus a younger child that doesn't have those issues. Increasing counseling support and or more learning opportunities on how to deal with relationships for middle school students should be encouraged.  Both ages feel that they have high expectations (94%, 77%) set upon them and they are academically motivated (92%, 82%). This tells administration that the rigor of instruction is appropriate. Majority of students feel safe (90%, 82%) at school and only 25% of 7th graders have experienced bullying. 20% of 5th and 7th grade students have experienced chronic sadness, thus it is important communicate to the students that there are adults to talk to such as the social worker.  The data from 2 years ago (then 5th grade) show that while in 7th grade feel more connected to school (increased 4%), feel safer at school (increased 13%), and students feel that they are more well behaved (increase 17%).|2019-10-22||Met|2019
39686350000000|Oak View Union Elementary|6|Oak View Union Elementary School District annually surveys parents and students in grades K-8 in the areas of Learning Experiences, Family Support and School Environment. Annually 7th grade students are administered the California Healthy Kids Survey.  Data from both surveys shows that overall students feel safe at school and connected to staff.  Families feel welcomed at school and that their child is receiving a quality education.  The implementation of a school counselor has shown to be a positive addition for student behavior, emotional and academic success.  Improvements for the 19-20 school year, based on survey results, include modernization of primary grade bathrooms and increased hours of school counseling.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
50755645030176|Oakdale Charter|6|The Oakdale Joint Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year to students in grades 5,7, 9 and 11. Results were presented to the local board and are used by the District's Action Team to inform ongoing implementation of OJUSD prevention programs. 62.5% of all 5th graders indicated a high level of connectedness to their school - 74% of all 7th graders indicated a high level of connectedness to their school - 81% of all 5th graders indicated feeling safe or very safe at their school - 78% o f all 7th graders indicated feeling safe or very safe at their school - 61% of all 9th graders indicated feeling safe or very safe at their school - 60% o f all 11th graders indicated feeling safe or very safe at their school. The survey will be administered again in December 2018. District prevention programs are intended to produce an increase in connectedness to school and student perception of safety.|2019-06-10||Met|2019
50755640000000|Oakdale Joint Unified|6|The district administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every two years to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11.      Students indicating  a high level of connectedness to their school:  62% of all 5th graders  74% of all 7th graders 52% of all 9th graders  47% of all 11th graders  Students indicating that they feel safe or very safe at  their school 81% of all 5th graders  78% of all 7th graders   61% of all 9th graders  60% of all 11th graders   The OJUSD Action Team develops programs and activities to address identified needs annually.  The Action Team meets four times a year to oversee the implementation of the plan and revise actions as needed.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
01612596111660|Oakland Charter Academy|6|The key learnings from our internal survey from our students is that the lack of consistent staffing across all levels of LEA has created instability that has greatly affected our culture and climate as a school. We have consistently scored low in recent years in terms of parent-teacher trust and also principal-teacher trust. We have created a Continuous Improvement Work Plan team (CIWP) in order to rectify these problems with parents, students, teachers, community members, administrators, and network level officials. We have been using the data to embed and support teachers. This was to build trust within our school and parent community to address the changes that need to happen and make at a school level.|2019-06-26||Met|2019
01612590114868|Oakland Charter High|6|Annually OCHS administers an anonymous school climate survey though our advisory classes to collect data and inform our practices.   Areas of Strength of 2018 Wellness Survey: 76% of students feel their ideas and opinions are valued at the school and over 90% feel safe on campus. Over 79% of students feel that if they have a problem or issue they can go to at least one staff member. 97.5% of students report having at least one friend on campus.  Areas of growth from our 2018 Wellness Survey: Only 60% of students said they enjoy coming to school, this is up over 5% from last year’s survey but is still low, unfortunately. 23.3% of students feel that bullying is an issue on campus, this is up from the 2017 survey where only 12.6% said that bullying was an issue on campus. About 38% of students say they see bullying happening at least once a month. About 39.2% of students report not participating in any extracurricular activities, this is about the same from last year’s survey (40.7%).   Student study skills from the 2018 Wellness Survey: 40.7% of students report needing help (agree/strongly agree) with being more organized. 57.8 % agree/strongly agree that they need help with time management. 62.7% agree/strongly agree that they need help with study skills with about the same amount (61.8%) reporting that they need help with test-taking skills.  Site leadership and regional superintendents, and other home office staff work to review aggregate data with site-based staff and discuss survey results, trends and get a deeper understanding of staff’s perspective to develop remedies for problems of practice.   OCHS has addressed our climate survey data areas for improvement.  This year we rolled out a  robust advisory curriculum focusing on the development of healthy choices, key social emotional learning skills, anti-bullying and organization and study skills.  We adopted the Sown To Grow web application for use in our advisory classes. Through Sown To Grown our  students track grades, identify trends, and reflect to improve. Teachers monitor growth, provide feedback, and empower students. Studies have shown that using STG Advisory for just 15 minutes a week can lead to significant GPA growth and while implementation is in the early stages we are excited by the improved grade data and development of self advocacy among our students. We are also working to ensure that more of our students participate in extracurricular activities. We have expanded our club offerings and now have a Latinx Cultures Club a Latin Dance Club and  expanded partnerships with community organizations such as Code Nation, Young Asian American Storytelling Internship (YAAS!) and the STEM focused ATLAS program. Our Link Crew student leaders work closely with the administrative team to support all students.  Link leaders visit advisories to present on a variety of topical issues and assist with lunch supervision of the freshman class which builds community and prevents bullying.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
01612590130617|Oakland Military Institute, College Preparatory Academy|6|Recommendation 1:  Build and strengthen trust between the leadership and the staff.  Adult relational trust is the most important element in a school for effective collaboration and achievement of the vision and mission.  Google discovered through Project Aristotle, a 2-year study of teams, that one of the five important characteristics of effective teams is “psychological safety.”   “Google found that teams with psychologically safe environments had employees who were less likely to leave, more likely to harness the power of diversity, and ultimately, were more successful.” Recommendation 2:  Research, learn about, and implement a comprehensive school-wide social-emotional, relational focus. A comprehensive SEL implementation means not just an off-the-shelf curriculum, but addressing all aspects of the culture to encourage these competencies, e.g., school traditions, grading practices, hiring of teachers, curriculum decisions, etc.   These interrelated and interdependent parts of a school can also convey SEL lessons if the school attends to its inclusion. Recommendation 3:  Undertake a comprehensive study of discipline management to create an effective school-wide system. Strengthening adult relational trust and implementing a school-wide social-emotional learning program will result in a decrease in discipline infractions.  However, it will not eliminate students from making poor choices. It is the nature of adolescents to make mistakes and to learn from them.  The key will be a system of discipline that taught the five social-emotional competencies advocated by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL).  Recommendation 4:  Design and implement a comprehensive professional development and training program that advances the competency and expertise of teachers and staff to better prepare students for college and future success. Educators need opportunities to learn how to redesign schools and develop practices that support a positive school climate and healthy, whole child development. Recommendation 5:  Adopt a clear and consistent communication structure and system. OMI has many interconnected and overlapping systems, e.g., restorative justice, discipline, care teams, SART, SARB, the college & career center, etc., that offer tremendous support for the students but can also cause confusion in terms of purposes, roles and responsibilities.  Staff and students are asking for clarification around “who does what.”  They are also asking for systems and structures that not only allow, but encourage healthy debate and disagreement.|2019-04-08||Met|2019
01612593030772|Oakland School for the Arts|6|Each year Oakland School for the Arts administers a comprehensive student culture survey to all students in all grade levels. The survey includes questions about gender identify, cultural pedagogical relevance, social conditions, general student safety, connectedness with academic programming, connectedness with artistic programming, general school environment, student support structures, etc. The results are shared with students, faculty, families, and our community for a variety of purposes and our leadership team engages in a detailed analysis that is used to guide instructional practices, student support practices, and teacher trainings. The survey for the 18-19 school year was consistent with surveys of previous years in demonstrating strong overall satisfaction with our program. Eighty eight percent of our students report the general environment at culture at OSA to be friendly and welcoming. 92% of students report having a positive relationship with their academic teachers, 89% of students report having positive relationships with their arts teachers, and 79% report having positive relationships with school administrators. 90% of students report that administrators care about their education. 88% report that OSA is a safe place for students and 86% report that OSA is a place where students have an influential voice. The disaggregated results of the survey show results that are consistent with the general school population when broken down by gender, race, sexual orientation, and grade level. Our linked learning pathway design process relied heavily on these survey results to inform the structural changes we have since implemented. The combining multiple arts emphases in overarching pathways intends to provide students with across pathway artistic educational opportunities that were previously not available to them due to departmental limitations. The development of our advisory structure was also informed by these surveys. Our advisories aim to address an identified need to support the small percentage of students that have not found a positive supporting relationship with either other students or an adult advocate on campus. Though these changes were recently implemented, we are already seeing results in a strengthened student culture and a stronger structure for our student support team to utilize in identifying and supporting student at-risk.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
01612590000000|Oakland Unified|6|DATA We annually administer the California Healthy Kids Survey to all students in grades 5-12, including questions on school connectedness, health and safety, and participation in different programs. Our district-wide 2018-19 student participation rate was 64.7%, with 59 of 87 schools achieving 70% or higher.    Elementary students: Positive responses for school connectedness:  “Yes, all of the time,” “Yes, most of the time”; for safety: “Very safe,” and “Safe.” Middle and high school students: Positive responses for school connectedness or safety:: “Strongly agree” and ”Agree.”    Across all students surveyed, 59.1% felt connected. Elementary students more frequently felt connected than middle school students (74.5% vs. 57%, respectively), followed by high school students (51.5%).    Student positive responses to connectedness questions across all surveyed grades: 58.8% of students felt close to people at their school.  57.4% felt happy to be at their school. 57.3% felt like part of their school. 60.8% reported that teachers at their school treat students fairly. 61.5% felt safe in their school.    Across all students surveyed, 61.5% felt safe in their schools. Elementary students reported feeling safe at a rate of 76.8%, versus rates of 59.3% and 53.9% for middle and high school students, respectively.   With respect to both overall school connectedness and safety, there was some variation in ratings across students by race/ethnicity. The highest overall connectedness and safety ratings were seen for white students  (69.2% for school connectedness, 70.6% for safety). The lowest ratings for school connectedness and safety were seen for Black/African American students (53.3% for school connectedness 57.1% for safety).    MEANING & USE Our survey results show that we still have work to do in terms of fostering students’ feelings of school connectedness and safety, especially as students move to middle school or high school, with multiple teachers and greater sense of anonymity. Our middle schools are paying more attention to welcoming sixth graders, and some have Advisory classes designed to connect a small cohort of students with a caring teacher. Our large high schools are similarly creating ninth grade houses or families. One large high school is organized into five pathways of 300+ students in grades 9-12 with a dedicated assistant principal, counselor, and teacher team who know the students well and who tie classroom learning to real world internships and career themes.|2019-10-10|We continue to focus on conditions for learning and to invest in sustaining culturally responsive Restorative Justice and Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports at all schools, with a special focus on reducing disproportionate suspensions of African American students and students with disabilities. We continue to embed social and emotional learning in academic instruction, as teachers consider the academic, social and emotional demands of the tasks, from kindergarten all the way to the Graduate Capstone project. We are integrating training for teachers in culturally responsive classroom management, and training in trauma-informed practices for school safety officers, teachers, and other staff. We expect that these system-wide universal and targeted approaches, professional development, and programmatic investments will contribute to increased positive responses related to school connectedness and safety, especially at the secondary level.|Met|2019
01612590100065|Oakland Unity High|6|Oakland Unity High School administers a student survey annually. We are confident of the validity of our results, given that the pertinent survey questions are nearly identical to those used in the CDE’s California Healthy Kids Survey.  Our progress in this area will be more apparent when we receive the analysis of the most recent survey results from our survey liaison. We should have this information by November when we will be administering another survey.|2019-10-16|Our incidents of disruption have gone down by 30% since last year due to the implementation of a mentoring program.|Met|2019
01100170131581|Oakland Unity Middle|6|Oakland Unity Middle School administers a student survey in fall and spring semesters. We are confident of the validity of our results, given that the pertinent survey questions are nearly identical to those used in the CDE’s California Healthy Kids Survey. In the most recently conducted survey (second semester 2018-19): 80% of students participated in the anonymous survey  (147 out of a total enrollment of 184). As in previous years, this rate of participation is above the 70% rate of participation for the statewide survey.  Our survey is anonymous, confidential and participation requires permission from parents.  Summary of Student Survey  We have consistently met or exceeded the statewide average for student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as reflected in our students’ survey responses.   For the question on the OUMS survey most directly related to school safety, 81% agreed or strongly agreed that they feel physically safe on the Unity campus. For the question most relevant to “connectedness,” 75% agreed or strongly agreed that they feel emotionally safe and supported on the Unity campus.    Additional questions reflecting a sense of connectedness related to the quality of our School Climate are listed below. In all cases the percent of students that agree or strongly agree is as high or higher than statewide results.   1. If I have a problem, I can get help from one of the school staff. (85%) 2. I feel emotionally safe and supported on the Unity campus. (78%) 3. Students of different cultures are respected at our school. (85%) 4. School staff at Unity care about students. (90%)  Our results exceed the statewide results reported August 2018 for comparable questions for middle school students.. See Key Findings, p. xii. 16th Biennial Statewide School Survey: School Climate, Substance Use, and Well-being Among California Students 2015-2017  https://data.calschls.org/resources/Biennial_State_1517.pdf|2019-10-16||Met|2019
07617620000000|Oakley Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to fifth and seventh grade students in Spring of 2018 is required every 2 years. We will administer again it in the Spring of 2020.   At the elementary school level, a district total of 269 5th grade students completed the CHKS for a response rate of 49%.  Females made up 62% of responders with males making up the remaining 38%.   At the middle school level, a District total of 473 7th grade students completed the CHKS for a response rate of 84%.  Females made up 46% of responders with males making up the remaining 54%.  Middle school students self-identified as: 7% African American, 6% Asian, 46% Latino, and 27% White.  Key Indicators of School Engagement and Supports indicate that 79% of elementary students and 55% of middle school students feel a sense of School Connectedness;  75% of elementary students and 67% of middle school students reported that a teacher or other adult listens to them;     Elementary and middle school students reported they were treated with respect by adults at the rate of 88% and 56% respectively.  In the area of School Safety, 79% of elementary students and 56% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school.  At the elementary school level, 80% of girls and 76% of boys reported feeling safe at school.   Middle school girls reported feeling safe at the rate of 52%, whereas 59% of middle school boys reported feeling safe.  By ethnicity, middle school students reported feeling safe as follows: African Americans – 50%; Asians – 60%; Hispanics – 56%; and Whites   50%.  We aspire to provide a safe and inclusive environment for all students. School safety, particularly at the middle school level will continue to be an area of focus. We will compare the data and information we have with the data we get in the Spring CHKS to see the areas of growth and areas we need to continue to improve. Based on the results of the Spring 2018 CKHS data we have focused on increasing Positive school climate and culture including increased positive behavior support systems.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
27659616119663|Oasis Charter Public|6|Based on the LEA's survey regarding School Climate results, the data reflects that parents feel that the school is safe, their children look forward to going to school, and teachers genuinely care about their child's well being. It was reported that 94% of the parents feel Oasis is a safe school, 94% of the students are motivated to learn, and 91% of the parents feel that the teachers care about the students. A key learning point that is reflected in the data is that they feel that students are not progressing as or being prepared for state exams. The data showed that 77% of the parents feel that their child is prepared and capable of taking the state exams, and 74% felt that child is being prepared to be a productive citizen of our community. The are of need is to focus more on communicating to parents what the school is doing academically to prepare their students to achieve grade level proficiency in their academics.|2019-10-14|The progress in the school climate is due to the improvement in communication. Over 90% of the parents reported that they were aware of the school's Habits of a Scholar and that was due to the fact that it was communicated over and over in multiple ways. Informing parents of the Habits of a Scholar was one of our school goals and we achieved it. The plan is for the LEA to continue the communicate with our school goals our parents .|Met|2019
19647330102335|Ocean Charter|6|Survey Results - general findings:  Students at OCS gave high marks for student involvement and student motivation.  Students rated teacher care and dedication high, and similarly indicated that students feel a sense of community and connection at OCS.  Students reported feeling supported both by peers and adults at school.  They also noted that there is emphasis from teachers on students being respectful and inclusive of each other regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, gender identify, religion, etc.  However, students indicated that the student to student message is not as consistently positive.  Students indicated that the school puts an emphasis on conflict resolution and really supports students working through challenging situations.    Actions in Response to Survey Results:    One of the highest areas of concern among students was having drinking water on campus.  As we are co-located on a district site, there is not much we can do to these facilities to improve this situation.  However, we are building a new school for all of our students and have included good drinking fountains and water bottle filling stations all over the campus to address this need next year when we move.  For this year, we are organizing water bottle deliveries to all classrooms.  The reason for our actions is to address the basic need of clean drinking water for all students and employees.  The classroom water bottle deliveries are working well.  Another survey response that required our action was the students' feedback on how easily and clearly they get information on work they've missed during an absence when they return.  As a result, we've focused on making our procedures for giving students information when they return from an absence more consistent.  The reason for this action is that they varied widely from class to class.  We are in the process of implementing this action so cannot yet comment on its effectiveness.     Another reflection we had after the survey was on the fact that many students gave feedback that they did not get lots of guidance in our school about college and career.  As we are a TK -8th grade school, our focus is not directly on discussing college and career.  Our focus is on preparing students with the skills, abilities, knowledge and heart they will need to be fulfilled and successful in college and career.  The survey results forced us to discuss and consider if we need to more directly address this area with students, mainly in the middle school years.  In the past, we've had career days when parents came in to share about their careers.  These were very helpful, so we discussed possibly bringing them back.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
44698070110007|Ocean Grove Charter|6|In the spring of 2019, all students in grades 5, 8, & 12 were asked to complete our School Climate survey. Our School Climate survey measures student satisfaction with their school, school connectedness, & school safety. It should be noted that we revamped our survey questions for 2019, with input from multiple stakeholders, so that the results would be more useful for our school. This resulted in rewording or combining of some prior questions.   Of our 5th, 8th, and 12th grade students, 33.7% responded to the survey. This is a 21.2% increase in participation from our prior survey and exceeded our goal of at least 25% participation. Overall, 44% of respondents were male and 56% were female. As with our previous survey, the vast majority of students responded positively in all areas.  Survey highlights: These items represent questions that saw a noticeable increase in positive responses.  - 93% of 5th graders felt that their teachers encouraged them to do their best most or all of the time, an increase of 6%.  - 95% of 12th graders felt that their teachers encouraged them to do their best most or all of the time, a significant increase of 33%. - 68% of 5th graders felt they participate in deciding what they learn about in school most or all of the time, an increase of 10%. - 87% of 8th graders and 95% of 12th graders felt their teacher cared about their post-high school college and career plans most or all of the time, an increase of 7% and 20% respectively. - 70% of 12th graders felt they had a voice in decisions about their educational path most or all of the time, a significant increase of 20%. - Of those who participate in school-sponsored activities, 92% of 5th graders, 94% of 8th graders, and 100% of 12th graders indicated they felt safe most or all of the time while participating.  Results of new/adjusted survey items: - (New) 75% of 5th graders, 81% of 8th graders, and 85% of 12th graders felt successful at school most or all of the time. - (New) 65% of 5th graders, 77% of 8th graders, and 75% of 12th graders felt there are opportunities to participate in school-sponsored activities most or all of the time. - (Adjusted) 90% of 5th graders, 87% of 8th graders, and 85% of 12th graders feel their school experience is a positive one most or all of the time.  Areas for deeper discussion: While the responses to the following questions were still very positive overall, there was a noticeable decrease in the percent of students that responded favorably. - There was a 10% decrease in the percent of 5th graders who felt their teacher cared about how they did in school most or all of the time. (97% to 87%) - There was an 11% decrease in the percent of 5th graders who felt school rules are fair most or all of the time. (97% to 86%) - There was a 7% decrease in the percent of 8th grade who felt school policies were fair most or all of the time. (100% to 93%)|2019-10-02|In addition to the data in our narrative, our survey also asked respondents to rate how likely they would be to recommend our school to others. This is ranked on a scale of 1 (extremely likely) to 5 (extremely unlikely). For this survey, 73.5% responded favorably (extremely likely: 36.05% or likely: 37.4%) and 10.9% responded unfavorably (unlikely: 6.1% or extremely unlikely: 4.8%). Below is the breakdown by grade level.  5th: Favorable: 79.3% (37.9% extremely likely, 41.4% somewhat likely), Neutral: 10.3%, Unfavorably: 10.4% (6.9%  somewhat unlikely, 3.5% extremely unlikely)  8th: Favorable: 66.7% (29% extremely likely, 37.7% somewhat likely), Neutral: 23.2%, Unfavorably: 10.2% (7.3%  somewhat unlikely, 2.9% extremely unlikely)  12th: Favorable: 80% (55% extremely likely, 25% somewhat likely), Neutral: 5%, Unfavorably: 15% (0%  somewhat unlikely, 15% extremely unlikely)|Met|2019
30666130000000|Ocean View|6|The Ocean View School District is committed to providing a safe, supportive, and nurturing environment that promotes engagement and school connectedness. Students in fifth grade participate in a locally developed survey and students in seventh grade participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). Both are anonymous, confidential surveys measuring student perception of school safety and connectedness. Results are shared with site administrators and provide valuable information when planning student supports. Results from the locally developed spring 2019 fifth grade survey indicated 97% of fifth graders feel the adults at school are happy to see them, 95% of students reported they are happy to be at school, 95% reported feeling safe at school, and 95% reported students are taught that bullying is not allowed. According to the spring 2019 CHKS survey, 71% of seventh grade students feel close to people at their school, 92% reported there is a teacher or other adult who tells them when they are doing a good job, 89% feel there is a teacher or other adult who cares about them at school, and 93% reported never having been harassed for physical or mental disabilities. Ocean View School District continues to focus efforts on school climate in the LCAP.  The surveys along with patterns and trends in discipline, attendance and suspension data, indicate the areas of focus are increasing student engagement in and out of the classroom and developing social/emotional learning at all schools. Strengthening these areas involves reviewing and improving Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS), which includes communicating to students the expected behavior in all areas of the school and reinforcing self-monitoring behaviors.  Additionally, training in and implementation of Restorative Practices will strengthen students’ social-emotional learning through the teaching of the skills needed to build relationships and school community. Continuing to promote bully prevention and school attendance reinforces student feelings of safety and school connectedness.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
56725120000000|Ocean View|6|The Ocean View School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) on an annual basis to all fifth and seventh-grade students.  Parent permission is required for a student to complete the CHKS survey.  The survey is anonymous, and the results are used to determine school climate and student well-being.  Data is analyzed by site administrators and counselors for trends and then report to the larger school stakeholders.  This data is used to develop plans to support and improve school climate. The Ocean View School District has seen very positive trends in most areas of the data over the past three years.  However, the data showed a steep decline in student connectedness with school among our seventh-grade students.  Administration and Staff met to discuss the findings and the information has shaped many of the school plans and goals for the upcoming year.  Specifically, there is an increased focus on Social Emotional Learning as well as an emphasis on student and teacher connectedness.   There has also been a slight increase in drug/alcohol reported use.  This aligns with other internal data such as increased discipline referrals for issues related to vaping.  While this is a small number of students, the noted increase has prompted a rapid response by the district including the implementation of an anti-vaping curriculum program to be administered by the school counselors.   Another area of concern which has been identified via this data analysis is the feeling of hopelessness and sadness by students on a consistent basis.  School counselors have been addressing this issue via small group and individual counseling.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37735690000000|Oceanside Unified|6|Data: From the California Healthy Kids Survey. Please copy and pate this URL into your browser: https://wested.ent.box.com/s/0m1i1kk2kb6wogpog0gizfdhyfh1lh5y  School Engagement and Supports: Remained the same in Elementary 72%. Motivation and connectedness drops slightly in the Grades 7-11. High expectations are consistent across grades at about 70%. Chronic Truancy is almost double at our non traditional school 18%. Parent involvement declines as student progress in grades. School Safety: There is a slight drop in the percentage of students feeling safe at school at all grade levels -5%. There has been a significant drop in the percentage of students seeing a weapon at school in elementary 25% to 11%. There was an increase at non traditional of being afraid of being beaten up since 2016 6% to 12%. There is a drop in students feeling they will be beaten up as students progress in grade. Substance Use: Drug use has remained low in 5th grade 2%. E-cigarette use has gone up across all secondary grades since 2016 approximately 7% to 14%. While the grade spans see a consistent percentage in use of substances as students get older the use increases by a factor of 3-10 times. Mental Health: There has been an increase to about 20% of students considering suicide in grades 7-11.  Meaning: Although most students do feel there are high expectations across all grades, there is a need for additional socioemotional supports for students. Students need to feel more connected to school and feel safer at school.   Use: Oceanside Unified hired a Coordinator of Student and Family Services, whose role emphasizes the prevention and intervention scope of school safety with a focus on social emotional learning. Oceanside Unified hired 8 elementary counselors who will teach social emotional competency lessons to all students in K-5 focused on dealing with conflict, empathy, problem solving, and relationship skills. Oceanside Unified also hired two social workers to support our schools of highest need as well as four mental health specialists. These roles are to focus on the root cause issues of student behavior and build common language across schools in dealing with challenges and problems. Finally, Oceanside Unified has begun partnering with the Anti-Defamation League (in addition to our ongoing Unconscious Bias and Restorative Practices workshops) to bring "No Place for Hate" curriculum, training, and assemblies to our schools over the course of the year.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19648810136945|OCS - South|6|In its initial year of operation, OCS- South administered the California School Parent Survey and the California School Staff Survey. As a TK through 3rd grade school, the CA Healthy Kids Survey was not grade/age appropriate and would not generate information typically found on the School Climate Report Card.  The assessment of the climate for students at South can be ascertained through students’ voice and choice that exists within the learning environment. From the selection of their seats by way of flexible seating in the classroom, the selection of books students select to read, and the selection of work partners students are able to choose within their classroom environment. As part of our Social-Emotional Wellbeing component, students, teachers, and staff spent a significant amount of time establishing expectations and creating community that led to a sense of belonging and connectedness that is critical as a first year school.   As OCS- South continues to grow, surveys will be administered to our students in grades three and up to ensure we are using data to promote a better understanding of the results and to identify areas of improvement.  In addition, these surveys will be analyzed to ensure we capture a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  This will ensure our local climate data on our local indicators is reviewed by our Governing Board in conjunction with the adoption of our Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP).|2019-10-29||Met|2019
30666703030723|OCSA|6|OCSA's mission is to " provide an unparalleled arts and academic education in a creative, challenging, and nurturing environment to a diverse student body passionate about the arts, preparing them to reach their highest potential" and we regularly seek input from students, parents and staff to reflect on whether or not we are achieving this. In Spring 2018, OCSA conducted the California Healthy Kids Survey to all 7th and 9th grade students to gather feedback on our school climate.  OCSA's School Climate Index Score was 387, which is in the 96th percentile in the state.  In Spring 2019, OCSA conducted an Academic Programs Survey to students and had 1864 responses.  Based on the survey, 82.47% of students feel connected and engaged at school; 66% of students feel stressed and/or anxious at school in a typical week;  93.23% of OCSA students agree or strongly agree that they are in a safe and positive learning environment during academic classes; 75.85% of students agree or strongly agree that their academic teachers encourage them to take risks and persevere through challenges; and 94.25% of students agree or strongly agree that OCSA is preparing them for success in high school, college, and beyond.  Overall, OCSA is pleased with the results that  indicate a majority of students feel connected, engaged, and safe on campus.  However, OCSA is still continuing to focus on growth mindset and balance through counselor meetings, presentations, and staff support so that students can utilize strategies when faced with adversity at school.  Additionally, we will continue supporting teachers with necessary training in regards to  mental health so that our students and staff continue to feel supported and safe at OCSA.   Lastly, we will continue  to offer our Welcome Week programming and a new student buddy system to help students connect with their peers early on in the school year.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
19101996116883|Odyssey Charter|6|In spring of 2019, Odyssey administered the California Healthy Kids Survey, along with its Partner surveys, the California School Climate Survey, California School Staff Survey, and the California School Parent Survey for the second year in a row.  Students were surveyed only with the consent of parents or guardians and participation was voluntary, anonymous and confidential.  Unfortunately, our student participation and completion of surveys did not exceed over 61% in any one grade level at the elementary level: 3rd grade 29%, 4th grade 56%, and 5th grade 61%.  Therefore the validity and representativeness of the results is adversely affected since it was lower than 70%.  However, in reviewing the 2019 survey results from our 3rd56th grade student surveys these areas are strengths: school connectedness, academic motivation, high expectations in school, feeling safe and students treated with respect.  Areas of the survey identified for improvements based on student responses are: meaningful participation, been hit or pushed, mean rumors spread about you, called bad names or target of mean jokes.  Since our 2019 data While we have garnered some data from the 2019 student surveys, anticipated using the results of this survey to identify strengths and areas of future growth.  In the 6th-8th grade student’s surveys, our data indicates that our strengths are: academic motivation, high expectations and school perceived as very safe or safe. Areas of the survey identified for improvements based on student responses are: meaningful participation, and parental involvement in school.  Due to the student participation rate of less than 70%, we will administer the student surveys in spring 2020 to our 5th and 7th grade students to ensure we capture a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  This will ensure our local climate data on our local indicators is reviewed by our Governing Board in conjunction with the adoption of our Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP).|2019-10-29||Met|2019
56725200000000|Ojai Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS)  was given to 7th, 9th and 11th graders in the 2017-18 school year, and will be given again in 2019-20. For the  2017-18 data, the  statewide average for the School Climate Index (SCI) was 300. The SCI incorporates two subdomains of overall support and engagement and overall low violence and substance use. Both Nordhoff and Matilija scored above the average with a SCI score of 326 and 319 respectively. Chaparral did not have enough survey results for statistically significant data.   While our CHKS data, observational data, and community input indicate that our schools are slightly above average in the area of school climate, we have identified the following areas of need to further improve our campuses:  1. increasing cultural literacy for students and teachers,  2. increasing student wellness,  3. increasing student engagement and  4. decreasing the use of vaping devices.  In order to work on these areas of need, in the 2019-2020 school year, we identified wellness and engagement as part of our district vision. In alignment with that vision, our initiatives for the year are implementing Restorative Justice Approaches and Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) curriculum in grades K-8. Additionally, we have purchased an online educational program and have added counseling services specifically to support students in understanding the dangers of vaping. We are exploring the addition of vape sensors to restrooms at Nordhoff.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
49708476051924|Old Adobe Elementary Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
49708470000000|Old Adobe Union|6|OAUSD improved upon feedback from stakeholders from the following school year where a perception survey indicated that increasing parent participation in school events was a need. The perception survey was given to assess needs at all levels at all school sites. OAUSD Implemented parent education nights focusing on literacy, math, STEM and supporting students at home. PTA, ELAC and DELAC meetings were held addressing paren questions and topics of need. To reach EL parents who speak Spanish all written correspondence was translated, translators were provided for speaking events, and translated robocalls and texts were utilized to ensure all families received pertinent school news.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37683380123778|Old Town Academy K-8 Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
42769500132894|Olive Grove Charter|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 99% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42772140138388|Olive Grove Charter - Buellton|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 99th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Overall School Climate Index for Middle School was 394 and for High School was 475. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42772060138370|Olive Grove Charter - Lompoc|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 92% State Percentile School Climate Index and 92% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42771980138362|Olive Grove Charter - Orcutt/Santa Maria|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 99% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42772220138396|Olive Grove Charter - Santa Barbara|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 97th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
49708706066344|Olivet Elementary Charter|6|DATA: Olivet’s LCAP Goal 1 is to create a positive, learning-focused environment and culture for all students. Olivet has taken various steps to provide training and professional development in order to improve the school learning environment. The Quaglia My Voice Surveys (students, teachers and parents) indicated that: 37% of students in grades 3-5 reported that they "feel important" in their classrooms (compared to 27% the previous year); 39% of students in grade 6 reported that they are "a valued member of" their school community (compared to 30% the previous year); 42% of students in grades 3-5 reported that they are "comfortable asking questions in class (compared to 41% the previous year);" and 65% of students in grade 6 reported that they are "comfortable asking questions in class" (compared to 37% the previous year). Olivet’s Healthy Kids Survey was administered during 2017-2018: 72% of students felt safe at school, 31% felt they have a caring relationship with adults, and 29% of students indicated a level of school connectedness.  Olivet attendance and truancy rates showed improvement as a result of more effective social emotional and behavioral intervention and strategies.  MEANING: Most of the My Voice Survey results showed growth from 17-18 to 18-19 school year.  However, the data indicates that we must continue to work on this area.  USE: As a result of this data Olivet will continue to focus on school culture (LCAP Goal 1) to reduce the number of behavior referrals to the office and support teachers in developing inclusive teaching strategies by increased counseling services and coaching.|2019-10-02|The Piner-Olivet Union School District was significantly impacted by the Northern California wildfires during 2017-18. The Tubbs Fire destroyed over 5,500 structures and Coffey Park, a neighborhood directly across the street from our district office, was one of the most densely populated areas in Santa Rosa affected by the fire. About 1,500 homes were destroyed in the small neighborhood. Our resilient community has come through this natural disaster with hope and unity despite for three months having added 200 students that were displaced from Morrice Schaefer Charter School (as a result of the fires) on the Olivet campus.|Met|2019
39103970120717|one.Charter|6|Based on the survey information, one.Charter is doing well communicating with families and providing opportunities for parents and students to have a voice in their child’s education.  Overall parents, students, and staff feel they contribute positively to the school learning environment. Particularly positive was feedback regarding parents/guardians and students feeling that their involvement in their or their student’s education was valued with an 88% return of strongly agreeing or agreeing with this statement.  Also, 85% of parents/guardians and students felt that they or their student’s teacher(s) ask to meet at least once a year in a face to face meeting regarding how they or their student is doing in school.  It should be noted that the one.Charter Academy, parents/guardians are invited to come visit the teacher at the end of every quarter in a parent/teacher/student conference. This provides three separate conferences for parents/guardians and students to meet with the teacher(s) throughout the year. Another area of review may be providing all families with information regarding resources in the community.  33% of families answered the question that they did not know, were neutral or strongly disagreed with resources being provided.  A survey, which was given across each grade span regarding local climate and perceptions of school safety, seems to indicate a strong agreement that one.Charter has made safety a top priority.  93% of students and parents surveyed strongly agreed, agreed or were neutral in their belief that the school is a safe place to learn.|2019-09-16|Of need are more individualized school surveys that provide feedback that is more conducive to each site.  For example, the one.Charter program has a school site serving K-6, others serving 7-12 students, and others serving adult age students.  Surveys should reflect those differences.|Met|2019
38769190132159|OnePurpose|6|OnePurpose School (OP) is committed to ensuring a positive school culture and climate and has developed Goal 3 of its Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) to support this work. ACTIONS: 1) Implementation of Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) curriculum to support student learning and growth. 2) Community-building within the classroom via morning meeting and closing circles and across grades and between students, families, and staff through community events. 3) Deliberate teaching of personal qualities across grade levels and subject areas. 4) Personal goal-setting in triannual family, student, teacher conferences. 5) Coordination of Services Team that monitors students at risk of truancy and provides student and family interventions as needed. 6) Administration of climate survey with students, families, and staff. ASSESSMENT: OP utilizes the following Local Indicators to evaluate progress: 1) Stakeholder satisfaction with the Physical Appearance, Student Interactions, and Attitude and Culture as measured by the research-based and nationally normed School Climate Assessment Indicators (SCAI) assessment, 2) Attendance Rate. RESULTS: 1) SCAI data saw a dip in average ratings with Physical Appearance at 3.43 by Families, 3.59 by Students, and 2.85 for Staff; Student Interactions at 3.72 by Families, 3.35 by Students, and 3.01 by Staff; and Attitude and Culture at 3.57 by Families, 3.03 by Students, and 2.53 by Staff. Ratings of 3.5 or higher are correlated with increased academic achievement. PROGRESS: OP engaged in the following specific actions. 1) Curriculum - OP continues to use the Toolbox curriculum to support SEL, as part of its partnership with Seneca. 2) Community Building - Morning meetings and closing circles were used in some classrooms, typically with more veteran teachers and/or teachers with stronger classroom management. This is an area where OP can benefit from improved consistency in 2019-20. 3) Personal Qualities - OP students were consistently recognized as scholars and warriors when they exhibit these traits. These were the two focal areas for 2018-19. 4) Parent Teacher Conferences - OP held conferences three times, to bring students, families, and faculty together to reflect on strengths, identify areas for growth, and make specific plans to support each child. This practice builds transparency and, in turn, agency for students and families. 5) Coordination of Services - OP has a robust partnership with Seneca, to provide Tier 1, 2, and 3 academic, socio-emotional, and behavioral services to our students. This is done through a trauma-informed model, where we have established a wellness center this year and continue to provide integrated clinical services for our students in most need. 6) Climate Survey -  The SCAI was administered with 3rd - 4th grade students, families, and staff in May. This survey provides critical longitudinal data that allows the team to assess the school program over time and across eight dimensions.|2019-06-11||Met|2019
36678190000000|Ontario-Montclair|6|In the Ontario-Montclair School District, the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered every other year to all 5th and 7th grade students, with the most recent report being published in December 2018. Metrics were chosen to determine school connectedness and perception of safety.  The following results are for the Ontario-Montclair School District 2018-2019 Elementary California Healthy Kids Survey Report – 5th grade students.   School Connectedness:   "I feel happy to be at this school"   • Ninety-five percent (95%) of students responded positively or neutral    "I feel like I'am part of this school"   • Ninety-three percent (93%) of students felt they were a part of their school    School Connectedness by gender   • Females: 72%   • Males: 69%   School Safety:   "Do you feel safe at school?"   • Ninety-four percent (94%) of students responded positively or neutral   “If you tell a teacher that you have been bullied, the teacher will do something to help”   • Ninety-six percent (96%) responded positively or neutral   The following results are for the Ontario-Montclair School District Secondary 2018-2019 California Healthy Kids Survey Report – 7th grade students.   School Connectedness:   “I am happy to be at this school:   • Eighty-six percent (86%) or students responded positively or neutral    “I feel like I am part of this school''   • Eighty-three percent (83%) or students responded positively or neutral    School Connectedness (7th grade) by race/ethnicity and gender   • Hispanic or Latino: 64%   • American Indian or Alaska Native:66%   • Asian: 55%   • Black or African American: 6 I%   • Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander: 60%   • White: 66%   • Mixed (two or more) races: 63%   • Females: 61%   • Males: 66%   School Safety:  “How safe do you feel when you are at school?”  • Ninety-one percent (91%) of students responded positively or neutral   “Feel safe or very safe at school" by race/ethnicity and gender  • Hispanic or Latino: 63%  • American Indian or Alaska Native: 69%  • Asian: 54%  • Black or African American: 54%  • Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander: 76%  • White: 67%  • Mixed (two or more) races: 61%  • Females: 58%  • Males: 68%  The California Healthy Kids Survey has been administered in OMSD since 2006, has proven to be a valuable instrument in monitoring our District 's  goals for social-emotional and behavior support and in creating positive and safe school climates. The Elementary 2018-2019 California Healthy Kids Survey Report and Secondary 2018-2019 California Healthy Kids Survey Report are available on the District's website.|2019-03-14||Met|2019
19647336097927|Open Charter Magnet|6|The LAUSD School Experience Survey results indicate that our students feel connected and safe. 96% are happy at school. 93% feel like they are a part of the school 94% Feel that the teachers treat the students fairly 87% Think the adults at school treat the students with respect. 82% of our students feel an overall connection to Open School  95% of our students feel safe 95% of the students feel that they would be protected by the teachers if they were bullied 74% felt that there is an adult on campus that they can talk to no matter what is bothering them 87% have an overall feeling of safety|2019-11-07||Met|2019
19642871996479|Opportunities for Learning - Baldwin Park|6|Based upon the 2018-2019 School Climate survey for OFL-BP the lowest rating across all subgroups is for Social media, with the average rating among all subgroups being 3.58, which shows a .06 increase from the 2017 OFL-BP School Climate survey results. Social Media remains a challenge for OFL-BP, as there are no identified resources available to monitor social media outlets to ensure the physical and emotional safety and well-being for all students.   Students identified Respect for Diversity as the highest rated category.  School personnel identified Safety, Rules, and Norms as the highest rated category.  Parents identified Social Support for Adults and School Connectedness/Engagement as the highest rated category.  The last key learning from the survey is that out of the 7th, 8th, and 10th grade population only 26% of parents participated in the survey, 88% of school personnel participated in the survey, and 71% of students participated in the survey.  This data indicates a need to engage more parents.  An action that OFL-BP intends to take is to implement Parent University sessions to educate students and parents on the trends and dangers of social media. We will continue the OFL_BP implementation of the "Zero Tolerance" policy for any type of bullying.  The Safety committees at each school site will continue to implement strategies to ensure a safe physical and online learning environment. OFL -BP also continues to provide communication outlets to make an anonymous report of bullying.  An identified category that was rated as low in the 2017 survey was Leadership.  This category was rated as a 3.90 in 2017, and in the most current School Climate Survey indicated an increased rating of 4 in  Leadership. This increase is attributed to increased collaboration time among staff, increased professional development opportunities, increased opportunities to provide input on instructional decisions,   and increased trust building by being transparent with information regarding changes to operational decisions.|2019-09-24||Met|2019
30664646120356|Opportunities for Learning - Capistrano|6|The National School Climate Center (NSCC) conducted a comprehensive school climate inventory survey to OFL- Capistrano’s 7th, 8th and 10th grade students and parents. Overall the rating for most categories ranged in the median positive range scoring above 3.5. Positive range of 4.14 of school connectedness engagement and a 4.40 out of 5 on sense of physical security.  OFL-Capistrano provides a safe environment for all students where our mission is connecting and building relationships to ensure student success.   Parents stated a negative range of a score of 3.0 on social support for students.  OFL-Capistrano has added additional services of a School Psychologist that provides support to all students including offering workshops that focus on topics such as anxiety.  A multiple of social emotional opportunities that students take part in including field trips and social emotional trips like service/ community service learning and addition of mentorship trips with students and staff. In addition, we have seen some barriers of growing student participation in student leadership and also in the use of the OFL-Capistrano's schools website and student/parent portal.  We are striving to grow participation in all areas to help support student success. Parents showed a concern for students not having friends at school, a barrier of independent study program.  However, with more students in Direct Instruction classes, teachers are able to create cohorts with students and build study groups.  A study group is offered in a classroom where students could come and just work on their courses together. The school has offered more "popular" field trips to gain more student participation and there has been a significant increase overall.  OFL-Capistrano has hired on more support for students and staff to help organize and communicate to parents and students through social media and other mass communication platforms. Parents also scored a neutral range on social media category as an area of possible concern.  OFL-Capistrano has a strict no cell phone or social media policy in the school site. In addition, there is a strict no tolerance policy on any type of bullying, including cyber. More focused parent workshops and family nights with such topics as social media strategies will be offered.  OFL-Capistrano offers many strategies to ensure student connecting to their school, awareness and relationships with staff. Professional development offerings for staff will include such topics as social media and social emotional supports that are needed for students.|2019-09-25|N/A|Met|2019
19644690128736|Opportunities for Learning - Duarte|6|OFL - Duarte used The Comprehensive School Climate Inventory Survey, developed by the National School Climate Center, to survey school personnel, parents, and students in the 7th, 8th, and 10th grades in April of 2019.  The survey encompassed thirteen different dimensions for staff and 11 dimensions for parents and staff, which measured a variety of topics: safety, teaching/learning, interpersonal relationships, institutional environment and social media.  The survey was taken by 100% of school personnel, 35.16% of Parents, and 68.94% of targeted students.  Of the 11 dimensions for parents and students, all median scores were in the positive rating range.  School personnel showed median scores in the positive rating range for 10 of the same 11 dimensions, with the Social Median dimension scoring in the neutral range.  For all three groups, positive rating range scores were seen for the Sense of Physical Security.  The median rating for students was 4.25 for that dimension, using a rating scale from 1-5, 5 being the highest score.  For the same dimension, the median rating for School Personnel and Parents were both a 4.0.  In regards to the School Connectedness Engagement dimension, the median score for Students was 4.0, for Parents it was 4.14, and for School Personnel it was 4.43.  The scores for these two dimensions are very encouraging for the LEA.  OFL-Duarte has worked hard to develop one on one relationships from teacher to student, to teacher to parent.  Evidence that parents feel connected to the school can be attributed to the fact that teachers, administrators and staff are easily accessible to parents.  Teachers are in constant communication with parents via, phone calls home, text messaging, and the use of the RemindApp.   The lowest median score for all three groups was in the Social Media Dimension, where the Student and Parent median score was 3.67, and the School Personnel score was 3.40.  While it can be difficult to monitor student use and interaction on social media, the LEA displays posters throughout its centers that promote the school as a safe place for our diverse population groups with regards to race and sexual orientation.  The LEA will look to address the Social Media concerns seen in the survey by providing staff with professional development during center meetings regarding how to identify students showing signs of being bullied through social media platforms, then the steps to take to support students.  The school will utilize our student leadership groups to perform center announcements to inform all students that their school has resources to help students being bullied online, and their teachers are a resource available for them to receive help.  The school is also looking to expand our official social media presence on Instagram and Facebook to create a positive space for students to receive information about school events in a monitored environment.|2019-09-24|N/A|Met|2019
19651361996263|Opportunities for Learning - Santa Clarita|6|OFL-WSH conducted local climate surveys to gather feedback from students, school personnel, and parents for the 2017-18 school year. In compliance with state requirements, OFL-WSH administered the Comprehensive School Climate Inventory (CSCI) in spring 2017 and will administer this survey again in spring of 2019. Surveys measured school climate perceptions in: Safety, Teaching and Learning, Interpersonal Relationships, Institutional Environment, and Social Media. Analysis and evaluation of the data findings were conducted to help guide LEA’s decision making and impact future actions. The findings showed consistent positive perceptions across stakeholders and subgroups. Scores, across all stakeholder groups, showed a median rating of 4 or above in most categories reflecting a positive attitude. School personnel had the highest rate of positive responses, followed by parents, and then students. There were no median scores lower than 3.4. While overall median scores were high, several subcategories had lower median scores across all subgroups of participants. Social-Emotional Security in Safety, Social and Civic Learning in Teaching and Learning, and Social Media tended to show lower positive perception median rankings.  OFL-WSH continues to exhibit areas of strength especially with Interpersonal Relationships and Safety based on the survey results. Challenges include providing a sense of social-emotional security, establishing the importance of social and civic learning, and ensuring safe social media experiences.  The school continues to build on establishing a rich social-emotional program. Anti-bullying events are conducted regularly, mental health awareness info and strategies are incorporated into daily announcements and mini-lessons, groups such as Girl Talk and Man Cave are offered centered around social-emotional learning.  Character Education has been expanded, and student council groups are now fully established at every school location. Sports program awareness and participation continues to grow and has contributed to school pride, student engagement, and an increased sense of school community. Service Learning trips have been added to the experiential learning Pathways trips with a focus on social and civic learning. Each school location also participates in Mock Elections and voter registration drives. OFL-WSH continues to require 10 hrs of community service as a graduation requirement and community service opportunities have been expanded.  Ensuring safe social media experiences continues to be challenging as technology and platforms rapidly change.  OFL-WSH has established a policy of appropriate norms and behaviors that are expected and enforced.  The Character Education and Health courses incorporate lessons that reinforce appropriate social media behaviors and the mental health awareness program tackles the issue as well.  This area will continue to be a target for improvement so positive perceptions increase for all stakeholders|2019-09-25|N/A|Met|2019
01100170136226|Opportunity Academy|6|Opportunity Academy administered its culture and climate survey in the spring of 2019. Seventy-six percent of those surveyed felt a high sense of safety when working with their teacher, while the other 24 % noted that they felt safe. The school continues to use the actions that they put in place for the 2018 which includes a sign in sheet at the front desk, continued and consistent conversations with AOA's workforce partners who provide case management services for students, and developing a resource binder with vital information that is readily accessible to all students. Based on the survey results the school implemented the use of the REMIND app which allows the school to do mass communication to all students in case of emergency or school closer. As well the school has implemented a monthly check-in session with the principal to discuss school policies, procedures, items in the LCAP, areas of growth, and areas of success. On the climate survey, 100% of the students identified that they would not be in school were it not for the Opportunity Academy. When asked on the college survey given by Peralta Community Colleges, those student at Opportunity Academy were asked if they were interested in pursuing a career once they have received their high school diploma. Thirty percent of those who responded showed no interest in pursuing a post secondary degrees or certifications. In response to this information, Opportunity Academy is exploring how to better utilize the individual education plan, career exploration, and finding internships for more of its students. The other responses included student who wanted to get promoted on their jobs, seeking other employment, acquiring job certification in health and construction. For those students who are interested in seeking other levels of education after earning their high school diploma, Opportunity Academy is exploring partnerships with local community based organizations and the local community colleges.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
43104390135087|Opportunity Youth Academy|6|OYA has not participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey.   OYA created and administered a student survey.  Approximately 60% of OYA students took the survey in June of 2019.  The survey results overwhelmingly demonstrate that college/career planning is key to improving outcomes for all OYA students.  In addition, the majority of OYA students reported they felt safe and supported by OYA staff.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19101990127522|Optimist Charter|6|Given our revolving residential student population, the average length of stay is 4.5 months, we complete a student/parent/staff survey once a year. Thus, the statistics are for that student/parent population that is here on that given day. 72% of our residential students completed the survey. 71.33% of those students stated that Optimist Residential Based Services are helping them deal with their problems and 92% state that school is overall helpful to them. Overall, students stated that they have learned better anger management, how to better cope with their behavior and impulses, how to open up to people, how to take in feedback, how to reach goals, and how to overall become a better individual. They stated that school is very beneficial and that they are making good academic progress and feel safe in our environment. Additionally, at the end of the year, we conducted a survey regarding our school buddy system, which is designed to assist new students in learning about our program. 96.4% of students responded that the buddy system helped them become familiar with all aspects of our school program.|2019-06-03|The strength of our program continues to be with behavioral management and encouraging students to attend school daily, complete work, and earn credits. Over 81.27% of all grades for students who were enrolled for 18 days or longer each 6 weeks were passing grades whereby students earn credits. Given our population, this is a huge success. Additionally, this past year, 8 students graduated, which is a feat for many of our students. Learning how to cope with a variety of emotional and behavioral challenges has been a significant strength of our program.  This year our 80% Club continued to have a positive impact. Between 25 and 40% of our students earn the 80% Club weekly. This 80% is the equivalent of a B in behavior on our multi-tiered positive behavior management system.|Met|2019
19752911996016|Options for Youth San Gabriel|6|OFY San Gabriel used The Comprehensive School Climate Inventory Survey, developed by the National School Climate Center, which encompassed thirteen different dimensions that measured a variety of topics: safety, teaching/learning, interpersonal relationships, institutional environment and social media.   The results indicate 76.35% of students from the targeted grade level participated in the survey. OFY San Gabriel understands during the next round they’ll aim to have at least 85% of students participate and complete the survey. 95.16% of school personnel participated in the survey and 25.13% of parents participated in the survey; which demonstrates that these two areas had met the required percentage.   Many of the strengths of our program were reported utilizing the CSCI scale of 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).  Within this scale, CSCI has determined that median scores of 3.5 or higher fall into the positive range.  For OFY-SG, the top categories that were scored 3.6 and above within each stakeholder group were: safety rules and norms, school connectedness and engagement, safety rules and norms, and support for learning and respect for diversity.  The majority of stakeholders indicated that they have had a positive experience with the program by merriting a score of four or more in most categories. Out of the three groups that participated in the survey, school personnel scored the organization the highest, followed by students, then parents. Two categories that scored below 3.5 among all three groups include: social support students and social media. OFY San Gabriel recognizes this is an area of growth and will work on developing a plan to increase results.  OFY-SG prides itself on ensuring that students feel welcomed within the organization, and also feel supported by all staff.  The results of the survey substantiates that statement; which further demonstrates a trend among all three stakeholder groups. Our dedication to strong Social-Emotional components throughout our program are yielding the impact that we want on overall school culture.  This commitment to Social-Emotional learning and development will continue in our program.The programs culture and vision that OFY San Gabriel implements drives a high level of support in learning and safety throughout its daily efforts for students.  Areas of growth include the following categories: social media and social support students.    The leadership team of OFY - SG is focused on following up on the feedback from parents/guardians who asked for greater social support for students and effective social media.  Through our Wellness Committee we will involve parent and student feedback to assess needed activities and resources.  We are going to increase our resources and activities around Mental health and awareness  OFY-SG is also committed to increasing our positive social media presence as a way for parents and students to follow the amazing things we are doing on a regular basis.|2019-09-27||Met|2019
19753090136648|Options for Youth-Acton|6|The Comprehensive School Climate Inventory (CSCI) administered by the National School Climate Center encompasses thirteen different dimensions that measure a variety of topics: safety, teaching and learning, interpersonal relationships, institutional environment, and social media. The results indicate that 91.15% of students from the targeted grade levels (7th, 8th and 10th) participated in the survey. 97.06% of school personnel participated in the survey and 32.56% of parents participated in the survey. Findings show consistent positive perceptions across stakeholders and subgroups. Out of the three groups that participated in the survey, school personnel scored our connectedness and engagement the highest, followed by parents, then students. Scores within each group were high, with the median score for school personnel being 4.43, parents 4.14, and students 4 on a 5 point scale. The lowest score that was received was 3.40 in social media, which is an area that is impacting students. The top categories that were scored high within each stakeholder group were social support from adults, respect for diversity, safety rules and norms, school connectedness and engagement, sense of physical security, and support for learning.    The programs, culture, and vision at OFY Acton drive a high level of support and safety throughout its daily efforts for students. The staff pride themselves on ensuring that students feel welcomed within the school and that they also feel supported by all staff. The results of the survey demonstrate a trend among all three stakeholder groups that they think this area is a strength for the school.   Areas of growth include the following categories: social media, social and civic learning, and sense of social-emotional security. To address these categories, the school has implemented multiple intervention programs. Mental health awareness information and strategies are incorporated into the school culture. Each month, a different mental health issue is highlighted. The school has a Student Council to help support students' social-emotional growth. Our Student Council has taken a proactive role in providing additional social engagement opportunities for students. Our sports program participation continues to be a strength for the school. This has helped contribute to school pride, student engagement, and an increased sense of school community. Students participate in our CREW program that helps prepare students for college.|2019-09-18|In addition to the experiential learning trips, OFY Acton has added Service Learning trips to focus on social and civic learning. OFY Acton requires 10 hrs of community service as a graduation requirement; therefore, students and staff participate in community clean up, blood drives, and clothing and sleeping bags collections for local community outreach organizations. OFY Acton participates in food drives, and the school is expanding the community service opportunities for our students. Overall, participation in student events has increased the positive school experience. Parent participation continues to be a challenge. The school holds Family Fun Nights, open houses, and participates in community events. The school is implementing training for staff to find other ways to engage parents in the school community better.|Met|2019
36678760120568|Options for Youth-San Bernardino|6|The School Climate Survey encompasses thirteen different dimensions that measure a variety of topics: safety, teaching/learning, interpersonal relationships, institutional environment and social media. The results indicate 83.93% of students from the targeted grade level participated in the survey. 85.33% of school personnel participated in the survey and 35.14% of parents participated in the survey; which demonstrates that these two areas had met the required percentage. The majority of stakeholders indicated that they have had a positive experience with the program by meriting a score of four or more in most categories. Out of the three groups that participated in the survey, parents scored the organization the highest, followed by staff, then students. Scores within each group were high in the median score for Parents is 4.15, Staff 4.09 and Students 3.91. The lowest score that was received was 3.60 in Social Media, which is an area that is impacting students. The top categories that were scored fairly high within each stakeholder group were: safety rules and norms, school connectedness, social support from adults, support for learning and respect for diversity.   The programs, culture and vision that the organization implements drives a high level of support and safety throughout its daily efforts for students. It prides itself on ensuring that students feel welcomed within the organization, and also feel supported by all staff. The results of the survey substantiates that statement; which further demonstrates a trend among all three stakeholder groups. Areas of growth include the following categories: social media, social and civic learning and sense of social-emotional security.   OFY- San Bernardino continues to build on establishing a rich social-emotional program. The school has implemented multiple intervention programs such as: Anti-bullying events are conducted regularly, mental health awareness info and strategies are incorporated into daily announcements and mini-lessons, groups such as Student Council, FAFSA Night, Family Fun Night, Sports Program, field trips, and Homework Cafe Nights are offered. Our Student Council has taken a proactive role in providing additional social engagement opportunities for students. Sports program participation continues to grow and has contributed to school pride, student engagement, and an increased sense of school community. Service Learning trips have been added to the experiential learning Pathways trips with a focus on social and civic learning.  Overall, participation in student events has increased a more positive school experience. Parent participation continues to be a challenge, but we continue to see growth. OFY- San Bernardino is actively researching strategies to increase parent engagement and participation in school events.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
34674473430691|Options for Youth-San Juan|6|The Comprehensive School Climate Inventory (CSCI) administered by the National School Climate Center  encompasses thirteen different dimensions that measure a variety of topics: Safety, teaching and learning, interpersonal relationships, institutional environment and social media. OFY-SJ observed the following rates of participation across the three main sub-groups: students (66.21%), staff (89.74%) and parents (31.88%). The OFY-SJ leadership team will focus on creating a system that will ensure that participation rates will improve during the next survey administration.     Many of the strengths of our program were reported utilizing the CSCI scale of 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).  Within this scale, CSCI has determined that median scores of 3.5 or higher fall into the positive range.  For OFY-SJ, the categories of Connectedness and Engagement, Safety, Rules and Norms, and Sense of Physical Security all fell into the positive range across all respondents.    Median Scores for Connectedness and Engagement Students: 3.86 Staff: 4.14 Parents: 4.00  Median Scores for Safety Rules and Norms Students: 4.00 Staff: 4.40 Parent: 4.00 Median Scores for Sense of Physical Security Students: 4.00 Staff: 4.00 Parents: 4.00 This feedback points to a strong and positive culture at the school sites, that is welcoming of students and their families.  All staff members are engaged in creating a safe environment for all students and the leadership team consistently works on implementing safety procedures.   Areas of improvement were also reported similarly.  Median scores between 2.5 and 3.5 fall into the neutral range.  For OFY-SJ, the category of Social Media scored the lowest across all respondent groups.   Median Scores for Social Media Students: 3.67  Staff: 3.20 Parents: 3.50  This feedback points to a need to increase communication of the resources that the school provides via our available online platforms and social media outlets (Facebook, Instagram, Remind.com, etc.).  The aim is to assist the social development of our students in a safe online space.  The biggest obstacle is in distributing the information to the students and their families.  Students and parents have reported that they did not know that OFY-SJ offers some of the programs that are aimed at addressing the social development of their student body.    The leadership team is focused on following up on the feedback from parents/guardians who asked for greater online/parent portal access.  This pathway exists already, but the parent must login through the student’s profile.  This can be improved by providing a separate pathway specifically for parents.  OFY-SJ is also committed to increasing the number of supports that we provide to groups of students.  There are many supports that are built in for the individual student, but group activities, that are designed to build stronger networks between students and their families can be strengthened.|2019-09-20|NA|Met|2019
36679343630670|Options for Youth-Victorville Charter|6|The Comprehensive School Climate Inventory (CSCI) administered by the National School Climate Center encompasses thirteen different dimensions that measure a variety of topics: Safety, teaching and learning, interpersonal relationships, institutional environment and social media. The results indicate 88.33% of students from the targeted grade levels (7th, 8th and 10th) participated in the survey. 88.37% of school personnel participated in the survey and 9.81% of parents participated in the survey. Findings show consistent positive perceptions across stakeholders and subgroups. Out of the three groups that participated in the survey, parents scored the organization the highest, followed by staff, then students. Scores within each group were high with the median score for Parents being 4.37, Staff 4.11 and Students 3.90 on a 5 point scale. The lowest score that was received was 3.40 in Social Media, which is an area that is impacting students. The top categories that were scored high within each stakeholder group were: social support from adults, respect for diversity, safety rules and norms, school connectedness and engagement, sense of physical security, and  support for learning.   The programs, culture, and vision at OFY Victorville drives a high level of support and safety throughout its daily efforts for students. The staff  pride themselves on ensuring that students feel welcomed within the school, and that they also feel supported by all staff. The results of the survey demonstrates a trend among all three stakeholder groups that they feel this area is a strength for the school. Areas of growth include the following categories: social media, social and civic learning and sense of social-emotional security.   To address these categories, the school has implemented multiple intervention programs. Mental health awareness info and strategies are incorporated into the school culture. Each month, a different mental health issue is highlighted. The school has a Student Council, Chess Group, Game Group , Drama Group, and Cadet Corps to help support students social emotional growth.  Our Student Council has taken a proactive role in providing additional social engagement opportunities for students. Sports program participation continues to be a strength for the school. This has helped  contribute to school pride, student engagement, and an increased sense of school community. Students participate in our CREW program that helps prepare students for college.|2019-09-13|In additional to the experiential learning trips, OFY Victorville has added Service Learning trips to focus on social and civic learning. OFY Victorville requires 10 hrs of community service as a graduation requirement, therefore students and staff participate in community clean up, blood drives, and clothing and sleeping bags collections for local community outreach organizations. OFY Victorville participates in food drives and the school is expanding the community service opportunities for our students.  Overall, participation in student events has increased the positive school experience. Parent participation continues to be a challenge. The school holds back to school nights, open houses, morning coffees and participates in community events. The school is implementing training for staff to find other ways to better engage parents in the school community.|Met|2019
10623310000000|Orange Center|6|Facilities, furniture, and grounds have been well maintained. A digital check in system and background check system (Raptor) has been implemented and maintained. Cameras(6) have been installed at school entrance and other strategic areas around campus. To ensure student engagement in a rural school, home to school transportation has been provided. The district has improved VAPA performance area by cleaning all stage curtains and assuring flame retardant standards are up to date in order to provide an appropriate environment for activities that were principally directed toward the entire student population. The District has provided preventative healthcare measures through a site LVN to assist in disseminating health information, communicating with parents in regards to preventative health/emotional issues and immunizations in order to improve attendance and loss of instructional time. The District provided Positive Behavior Intervention and Support Program to assure character education and behavior interventions are in place, Time to Teach behavior program. District encouraged an increase of clubs and campus activities to support positive school climate. (PBIS stipends, behavior/attendance incentives, supplies for activities, banners, motivational speakers, rallies). Maintained and newly added clubs/events were: DIY Club, Basketball Club, Folklorico, Mariachi/Guitar Club, Vapa Showcase, and Portfolio Day. The District provided supplemental services through district psychology services in providing social skills and counseling services (Tiger Talks and Behavior Academies). Providing referrals and communicating with parents in regards to socio-emotional issues in order to improve attendance and loss of instructional time.   2018-19 School Climate Survey: How Connected do you feel at your school? Very Connected - 46% Somewhat Connected - 43.9% Not Connected - 10.1% How safe do you feel at your school? Very Safe - 46% Somewhat Safe - 47% Not Safe - 7.1%  The district has determined one area where significant improvement is needed based on the 2018 California Dashboard. The suspension rate data indicates that there was an increase to the number of students who were suspended once, in the 2017-2018 school year, when compared to the previous years data. The percentage of students who have been suspended at least once increased by 5.2%. In order to address this area, the district will increase efforts by focusing on goal 2 in the LCAP. Students who are at risk of suspension will be monitored and will be given resources and support to prevent suspensions and to increase awareness to socio-emotional issues that contribute to behavior problems, through the school psychologist. Teachers and supports staff will continue to receive training in the areas of behavior intervention, student engagement, and training regarding strategies that can be used with students who struggle with socio emotional issues.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
30103060134056|Orange County Academy of Sciences and Arts|6|We provided an opportunity for all families to participate in a school-climate survey in May 2019. This survey included questions related to the following areas: overall satisfaction, academics and instructional staff. Families from all grade spans provided response to the survey. After evaluating the responses to the survey questions, it was clear that there were three important focus areas that we needed to address during the upcoming school year. These focus areas were: Continue our improvement with school-wide positive behavior; 2) Improve differentiation to ensure each student is achieving at his/her academic level; 3) Continue to provide additional supports for our students in Special Education. As a result of the survey, administration continues to work with our PTSA organization to support both positive school climate with greater parent involvement and academic rigor by bringing programs and support to the school. Additionally, we continue to build capacity within our Parent Council to provide multiple opportunities for parents to volunteer on campus on a daily basis, allowing parents to have a voice in how programs are implemented to best serve the students on our campus. We chose to develop our own survey so that we could ask for feedback directly on the areas that were of most concern to the school's staff. The goals which were established in our LCAP for the 2019-20 year were directly connected to the focus areas identified during evaluation of the survey, as listed above.  The majority of OCASA's parents were happy with our third school year.  We began our second year of our school-wide PBIS program and collected data throughout the year to help improve positive behavior and climate on the campus and continue to collect data in order to improve our behavioral outcomes.  Student survey results indicate that the majority of students feel connected to their teachers and other students, feel emotionally and physically safe on campus, and have a clear direction for their future.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
30103060000000|Orange County Department of Education|6|ACCESS administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5, 8, and 9-12 every other year.  Survey results are communicated to school administrators and this data is used to evaluate the student support services at the school sites as well as to add or modify actions and services in the LCAP. This analysis resulted in ongoing funding for school-based mental health services for both general and special education students in our community schools.  Our School Accountability Report Cards, as well as the measures in the LCAP, provide data on student suspension, attendance, dropout, and graduation rates.  The LEA has developed and is in the process of implementing a comprehensive policy for addressing student behavior consistently across the program within the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) framework.  To support fidelity in MTSS implementation, the LEA collects and analyzes both state and local data on an ongoing basis.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
30666700109066|Orange County Educational Arts Academy|6|OCEAA administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5-8 every other year; the next administration will be in winter 2020. OCEAA's 2017-18 Middle School Climate Report Card, based on comparative data from the 2015-16 and 2017-18 CA Healthy Kids Surveys, shows dramatic increases in School Climate Index Score (+98 points to 331), SCI State Percentile (+65 percentage points to 75th percentile), and SCI Similar School Percentile (+77 percentage points to 91st percentile). We attribute this improvement to several areas of program development over the past two years, including: staff training in Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports, mindfulness, social-emotional learning and multicultural education; a full-time counselor/PBIS specialist on site; and re-organizing the middle school team and schedule to include dedicated advisory time. In 2019-20, OCEAA expanded this work through partnership with EL Education (ELED).  New actions include expanding advisory (called ‘Crew’ in the ELED model) to all grades at least 3 times per week, providing professional development in implementing Crew, and transitioning from teaching PBIS school-wide behaviors (organized, respectful, careful, responsible) to school-wide character traits (courage, compassion, perseverance, integrity and collaboration).|2019-11-13||Met|2019
30103060134841|Orange County Workforce Innovation High|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  98% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  96% reported that they felt connected to the school *  97% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
30666210000000|Orange Unified|6|OUSD selected the Each Mind Matters School Climate Student Survey licensed through the Orange County Department of Education as its local performance indicator to measure the perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The State Board of Education requires that districts administer a climate survey to students in at least one grade within the grade span(s) that it serves at least every other year, and that the survey address both school safety and connectedness. The voluntary survey was administered January 28, 2019 through February 8, 2019 to all 6th, 8th, and 10th graders district-wide.  Active permission was required for all elementary students to participate; passive permission was accepted for middle and high school students.  4,350 students participated in the survey.  The focus of the survey was to produce data to assist our district and site administrators in making improvements in all students’ safety and sense of respect and connectedness at school.  Our goal is to continually make growth in achieving a positive school climate on every campus.   The survey was divided into five dimensions: Safety, Teaching and Learning, Relationships, Institutional Environment and Behavioral Health.  The following is a breakdown of topics within each dimension: Safety:  Norms and Rules; Physical, Social and Emotional Security; Cyberbullying Teaching and Learning:  Support for Learning; Social and Civic Learning Relationships:  Respect for Diversity; Social Support Adult to Student; Social Support Student to Student; Social Support Adult to Adult Institutional Environment:  School Connectedness; Physical Surroundings Behavioral Health:  Stress and Anxiety; Depression OCDE prepared the results of the survey and provided a detailed report for each site and for the district overall.  Results were classified into three categories: Exceeding, Meeting, or Room to Improve.  The results for OUSD for all thirteen topics were within the category of Meeting.  This indicated, “Student perceptions are that their social, emotional, and physical needs are being met.”  For the individual sites, data reflected that almost all of the elementary, middle and high schools fell into the Exceeding and Meeting categories for the 13 topics.  The data was shared with school site leadership to assist with planning for 2019/20.  The results were presented to the Board of Education on 10/17/19. Although there were minimal areas of concern, OUSD will continue implementing multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS) to embrace all students in a positive environment that promotes health and wellness.  The district will continue to provide opportunities for engagement and grow student leadership and voice at all sites.  Anti-bullying campaigns are in effect across the district, and all sites have access to mental health counselors.   For the 2019/20 school year, students will once again have the opportunity to participate in the Each Mind Matters School Climate Survey.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
43696330000000|Orchard Elementary|6|Orchard School District conducted a local climate survey of students in grades 3 - 8 during the spring of 2019. In total, 404 students took the local climate survey. Key learnings included the following: 73% of students survey indicated a sense of pride in attending Orchard School. 68% of students felt physically safe at school whereas roughly 60% of students felt emotionally safe. 68% of students indicated that they had goals that they were actively working on and 75% of students convey a sense of growth as a learner.  The results of the student survey on school climate indicate that Orchard School District provides the school conditions and climates for students to succeed in the progression of their assigned course of study. However, student data indicates a need for additional supports for students social-emotional well-being. As part of the continuous improvement cycle, the Orchard School District's Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) continually reviews LCAP goals for student social-emotional well-being supports. New resources and supports were added to improve school climate during the 2019-2020 school year. That progress is listed in the criteria section.|2019-10-22|Orchard School District has added resources to support school climate during the 2019-2020 school year. Among the resources include access to School Linked Services, the Bruin Zen Den, Support Team, and Community Center. School Linked Services (SLS) provides supports to families for outside resources, such as medical and dental services. The Bruin Zen Den provides student support for self-regulation during the school day. The support team is a group of school staff who assist students in using the Bruin Zen Den for self-regulation and provide additional supports such as counseling, social skills groups, and more. Finally, the community center brings resources for families, such as a food pantry, clothing, and access to outside resources in conjunction with School Linked Services and other community resources.Thus, Orchard School District has met the criteria.|Met|2019
49709614930319|Orchard View|6|Through the annual School Safety survey for students in grades 6-12 and the student survey students consistently rate OVS as a safe and welcoming school with a low rate of bullying. 96% of students reported that they felt safe at OVS. Student in grades 8-12 report that OVS’s small size and safe school environment is one of the top four reasons they like OVS. Behavior and discipline problems are minor occurrences at OVS. All OVS students sign a behavior agreement at the beginning of the school year. The director works directly with the student, teachers, and parents to address behavior problems. The school attributes its small size and one-to-one teaching to its low level of discipline problems. Through the WASC process of continual school improvement the school has added a School-wide Learning Outcome to support students in becoming independent learners who develop skills and self-awareness to live a healthy and productive life and is working and is working collaboratively to identify measurable steps to achieve that outcome.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
42692600116434|Orcutt Academy Charter|6|In the fall of 2018, Orcutt Academy students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 took the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), a comprehensive, youth risk behavior and resilience survey.  Results were not available for grade 5, as the group of test-takers was not statistically significant, but results were available for grades 7, 9, and 11. Compared to the results of the Fall 2016 CHKS, the results of the Fall 2018 CHKS bring some encouraging news but also point to some concerning trends.  Four of the elements in the “School Engagement and Supports” category showed increases:  academic motivation, caring adult relationships, high expectations, and meaningful participation.  That being said, in the element of “school connectedness” the school still has 30-plus percent of students who need a higher level of outreach and inclusion.  Meantime, stakeholders still can be concerned about the percentages of students who said they have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness (45%, 40%, and 41% in grades 7, 9, and 11 respectively), who have considered suicide (36%, 26%, and 21% in grades 7, 9, and 11 respectively), and who have had mean rumors or lies spread about them (45%, 39%, and 37% in grades 7, 9, and 11 respectively).  This data supports the emphasis the school and school district have given to having counseling available for students with social/emotional issues and to implementing instruction for students in online citizenship.  The results of the Fall 2018 CHKS sparked discussion among both staff and the OA School Advisory Council.  To address student stress, distraction, and mental health needs, OAHS is implementing a mindfulness program developed by UC Santa Barbara, and the seventh- and eighth-grade teacher at OAK-8 is implementing classroom mindfulness activities.  Meantime, both OAK-8 and OAHS are implementing the Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) program for communication of school expectations and positive reinforcement of on-task and appropriate behavior.  And staff are continuing to work to provide students opportunities for meaningful participation in their school. These include Associated Student Body (ASB) units at OAK-8 and OAHS, the OA School Advisory Council, and Students Leading Education (SLED).|2019-10-09||Met|2019
42692600000000|Orcutt Union Elementary|6|OUSD strives to provide a nurturing school environment where students feel safe, welcome, and connected to their school community. In order to measure our progress towards this goal, we have chosen to use the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), which is administered statewide every other year.  Students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 are given the CHKS and answer survey questions about school connectedness, safety, harassment, substance use, and mental health. The California Healthy Kids Survey makes available a variety of reports summarizing the district’s and individual school’s data.   Key indicators contributing to OUSD’s overall school climate are school connectedness, safety, caring adult relationships, and high expectations.  Elementary students reported feeling connected to school at the rate of 76%, while middle and high school range between 64% to 73%.  Perceived school safety is positive for 84% of elementary students and 66%-82% for middle school and high school students.   Believing to have caring adult relationships at school ranged from 62%-74% across schools and grade levels.  The vast majority of students, 80%-90%, feel OUSD sets high expectations. For a couple of CHKS cycles, “opportunities for meaningful participation” has been consistently low across all student groups. To address the need to improve in this domain, OUSD has implemented Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), Students Leading Educations (SLED), and Social-Emotional Learning (SEL).  PBIS has involved both staff and students in creating a positive approach to expected behavior.  SLED has empowered students to make school improvements.  Staff participated in professional development activities with a focus on SEL.  Students continue to participate in the LCAP development process throughout the school year.  Staff is strategically including students in the decision making process by providing opportunities through class discussions and integrating critical thinking opportunities.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
12629680000000|Orick Elementary|6|Based on a student survey from Spring 2019: 86% responding students feel safe at school 71% responding students feel involved with school 86% responding students feel they have enough instructional materials 86% responding students feel the school is clean Orick School will continue to support LCAP goals and actions to improve school climate.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
07617700000000|Orinda Union Elementary|6|Indicator 6- Local Climate Survey  Orinda Union School District has administered climate surveys both district-wide and site-specific since 2009. This includes the School Site Council survey that measure a variety of school climate criteria such as parent engagement, student connectedness and satisfaction, safety and substance abuse, and mental and physical health. Our most recent district-wide student survey was the California Healthy Kids Survey which was administered to 94% of Orinda 7th graders in 2015-2016. Orinda Schools have recently expanded our use of the California Healthy Kids Survey district-wide in 2017-2018 to include 5th grade and 7th-grade students, as well as staff. Based on the data we had collected, Orinda also included a Social-Emotional question module to better understand the need of our students.  The CHKS survey is given bi-annually. Below is a summary of the results in three key indicators:  1. School Engagement and Supports: 89% of students reported feeling connected to their school (high) 53% of students reported having caring relationships with adults on campus (high) 2. School Safety and Substance Abuse 89% of students reported feeling very safe on campus 89% of students reported being treated with respect  3. Mental and Physical Health 0% of students reported current cigarette smoking 18% of students reported experiencing chronic sadness or hopelessness in the last 12 months  As a result, a deeper analysis was done into the issues related to safety, tolerance, diversity and bullying behavior. A committee of parents and school staff convened to discuss the issues, look at data, and explore programs and other ways to support building a culture of student safety. Some of the outcomes of this effort included the implementation of safety/ social-emotional based programs such as KidPower, and Think first. A District-wide character education framework was established and used to promote alignment and common focus areas for all sites. Additionally, the District partnered with Summit Center and has implemented a counseling program at all elementary sites which helps support the social-emotional needs of all kids. The Committee for Student Safety and Wellness continues to meet in 2018-2019 to examine data in measuring the effectiveness of these programs.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
11754810000000|Orland Joint Unified|6|Orland Unified School Districts selected the California Health Kids Survey as the metric to measure school climate. Grades 7, 9 and 11 were surveyed. Data from 2017-18 administration indicate that: 1. School Connectedness, students reporting a High Level of Connectedness: Grade 7 (61%), Grade 9 (49%) and Grade 11 (34%) 2. Caring adult relationships; (Average Reporting) Grade 7 (33%), Grade 9 (21%), Grade 11 (21%) 3. School perceived as 'safe' or 'very safe' Grade 7 (72%), Grade 9 (52%), Grade 11 (61%) 4. Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness Grade 7 (34%), Grade 9 (27)%, Grade 11 (35%)|2019-10-15||Met|2019
36678270000000|Oro Grande|6|Oro Grande Elementary administered  a School Climate survey (Hanover Research) to all parents, and students in grade 4th-6th. All staff also completed the survey.   The survey revealed that 82% of parents agree or strongly agree that “school[s] effectively keep parents informed about events and activities. Nearly 97% of parents believe that their child wants to learn and  believe that their students want to do well in school.  Student safety and connectedness continues to be a priority at Oro Grande Elementary and many programs have been implemented to ensure students are safe and feel connected.  The school will continue to look for new ways to engage students and give them opportunities to share their concerns. Oro Grande continues to build programs that promote a safe school environment for students and staff.   I-School and Student Leading Education Development (SLED) programs give students a platform to voice concerns and allow them the tools to find their own student lead solutions to these problems. This year the students are working towards  opportunities to engage with students that are not feeling connected at school.   Oro Grande added personnel and programs to address the issues of school promote healthy social and emotional growth for students. A School Resource Officer was hired to train staff and provide additional security to all campuses. A registered nurse and licensed vocational nurses were employed to work with parents, students, and staff on physical health concerns and healthy living. An elementary school  counselor works to provide students assistance with social issues that affect their academic progression. The second year of  social-emotional curriculum, along with professional development for staff has resulted in all students having tools to advocate for their emotional health.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
04615070000000|Oroville City Elementary|6|OCESD administered the California Healthy Kinds Survey to students in grades 5 (Elementary School) and 7 (Middle School). This information is share with principals at Admin meetings and with the school board once a year. Some highlights of the survey for 5th grade (all percentages report Most or All of the time): 79 percent of reporting that adults in school have high expectations for them 79 Percent of the 5th grade students also report high parent involvement.  76 percent feel safe at school 75 percent say they feel they are treated with respect.  Areas of Growth for 5th grade: 41 percent of students say they feel like they are treated fairly when the break the rules 33 percent report that they fell there is meaningful participation at school Some highlights of the survey for 7th grade (all percentages report Most or All of the time): 74 percent of reporting that adults in school have high expectations for them Areas of Growth for 7th grade: 59 percent state there are caring adult relationships at the school 49 percent report parent involvement in schools 24 percent report that they fell there is meaningful participation at school OCESD has contracted with the county office to provide training and support in the area of PBIS, Restorative Justice, Social Emotional Learning and other areas related to building positive relationships. Additionally, the district is establishing social emotional learning classes for students. Next steps include finding strategies for students to get more meaningful participation in decision making at schools.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
04615150000000|Oroville Union High|6|OUHSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in December 2017 to ninth graders and eleventh graders.  We will administer the survey during the 2019-2020 school year.  CHKS as well as other dashboard indicators show that OUHSD needs to address Chronic Absenteeism (25.5%), suspensions for all students(14.4%) and improve student connectedness to school.  One of the questions on the CHKS asks students "This school is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn."  199 students answered the question, only 48% of students agreed.|2019-10-16|OUHSD retooled the district discipline plane over the last three years, in an effort to reduce suspensions and expulsions and still ensure that staff and students are safe.  During the 2016-2017 school year, OUHSD recommended expulsion for 59 students.  During the 2017-2018 school year, OUHSD recommended expulsion for 44 students.  During the 2018-2019 school year, OUHSD recommended expulsion for 23 students.|Met|2019
19647330101675|Oscar De La Hoya Animo Charter High|6|The school administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th and 11th grade students annually. The school uses the CHKS survey results to foster a positive school culture, monitor school climate and assess possible causes for student chronic absenteeism and suspension. The CHKS and other family survey results will be viewed in conjunction to formulate an understanding of school culture and healthy kids. "The school mapped the CHKS questions to four domains: Relationships and School Connectedness, Participation, School Climate and Safety, and Risky Behaviors. Schools score Exceeding, Meets, Approaching, or Below for each Domain, as well as a score overall. The school hopes to improve in each domain until Meets is achieved. To measure student connectedness and improvement in school culture, the school will track the CHKS domain “Relationships and School Connectedness”. The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Relationships and Student Connectedness” domain. This domain includes indicators on students’ relationships with adults on campus, students’ connection to the school, and parent and family engagement. This data will be used to help assess causes from chronic absenteeism and suspension. The data will also be used to guide programmatic decisions around restorative practices and positive behavior intervention systems. The school scored 3 in this Domain, with a continued focus on developing a strong sense of school connectedness and evidence of caring adult relationships through professional development and restorative practices. " The school will track students’ responses to the CHKS “Mental Health” subdomain, which inquires about student mental health, specifically whether a student has been depressed or suicidal. Student responses will help to evaluate whether a school has sufficient community partnerships such that students feel that their mental health is supported. It will also provide data on the school’s ability to cultivate a trauma sensitive environment for students. The school scores had a wide range, requiring further student by student analysis and targeted supports by the extensive mental health team on campus including counselors, a full time psychologist, clinical supervisor and case manager. To measure additional metrics of school climate, the school will track a variety of other metrics included in its LCAP. The school has a suspension rate of 3.6%, which is a reduction from last year. The school continues to maintain a low expulsion rate, indicating a positive school climate. Additionally, over 95% of parents would recommend the school.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330109934|Our Community Charter|6|Annually, OCS uses our Family-LCAP Survey to gain feedback from stakeholders. This survey was developed to be consistent with the school's mission, LCAP, and charter. The survey showed 92% of respondents feel OCS provides a welcoming environment for stakeholder input. 84% of respondents feel the school personnel respond thoughtfully to parent and family input. 87% feel that parent participation is encouraged at OCS. 84% of families share that OCS maintains a positive school culture. The school's LCAP Goal #2 addresses broader community and family supports to increase home-school collaboration. Therefore, in 18-19 OCS began using a school app that will greatly increase two-way communication with teachers and parents, and school administration and parents. In 19-20, OCS adopted a different app, ParentSquare to assist with communication with families. This has been a great success thus far. Parents receive more frequent and clear communications about school meetings and events through multiple modes of communication: weekly newsletter, ParentSquare app, school website, OCS Facebook page, school email, Illuminate Parent Portal, Parent/Student Handbook, teacher newsletters, posters/flyers sent home, and an OCS Google Calendar of meetings and events. According to the survey, the top 5 most popular forms of communication with the school are school emails, weekly newsletter, classroom newsletters, parent app, and white boards at school entrances. Aside from the Family-LCAP survey for parents and community members, OCS creates a survey for Staff based on the school mission and LCAP which measures their perspectives on school climate. Students complete a survey through the student-run Student Senate. All students had a voice and were able to share their perspectives on LCAP and school climate. 86% of students report feeling that they belong in school and are emotionally and physically safe both inside and outside the classroom. 87% of students report that the administration, staff, and teachers model respectful behavior towards both students and adults. 79% of the students report that teachers and administration take an interest in them and their lives, respect everyone and deal fairly with behavior problems. The results of all surveys are reported to the Board of Directors annually.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
54720250000000|Outside Creek Elementary|6|The key learnings from the survey are that children feel safe and connected at Outside Creek School.   Outside Creek School's strength is providing a safe school environment where students can focus on their academic and social growth.Outside Creek will continue to make the school a safe learning environment where children can grow in character and academics. Outside Creek students continue be respectful and friendly to each other. Outside Creek will continue to focus on accountability in student behavior so that the environment continues to be safe.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
14632970000000|Owens Valley Unified|6|The survey was given to students in grades 4-12. The key learnings are as follows: 1. Students feel safe at school (67% of respondents feel safe all or most of the time.) As a result of these findings, Owens Valley will continue to implement measures to ensure that students feel safe at school, including ongoing use of the StopIt App. 2. Students feel that there are caring adults at school (78% of respondents reported having caring adults at school). 3. Most students feel that they are treated fairly by their teachers (62% of students agreed or strongly agreed that students are treated fairly by their teachers.) The District will continue to work on equity, to ensure that students understand that equitable does not always mean equal treatment, and will provide learning opportunities to staff to ensure that students are treated and disciplined fairly and consistently. 4. Students feel that there are high expectations for them (83% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that teachers expect them to work hard.) High expectations will remain a District priority, for both learners and teachers. 5. There is much room for improvement in the area of respect in our district. There is a culture of respect between students and staff members (48% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that students treat each other with respect; 57% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that adults treat students with respect; 34% of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that students treat teachers with respect.) A respectful culture at Owens Valley will be fostered with the implementation of PBIS.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
41104130135269|Oxford Day Academy|6|Our school administers an adapted version of the California Health Kids Survey each year to all families. It has been adapted to ensure it covers some of the unique features of our school model (such as our use of Socratic teaching); a veteran social scientist made these changes to ensure the survey is still internally consistent.   Additionally, our students take a mental, emotional, and social health (MESH) battery every year through Transforming Education. This test is normed and nationally administered, it gives us additional insight as to how safe, engaged, and known our students feel. From these two assessments, we have learned the following:  1. DATA: Our key learning is that our students feel safe and known within our school, and that this is critical given how challenging they find the work. Students can become overwhelmed at times by the rigor and high expectations of our academic model, and students who report feeling safest and most known typically persist the most in the face of academic challenges.   2. MEANING: This key finding implies that we need to be proactive in identifying students who are not doing well academically and unpack the degree to which they feel safe and known. We must also be proactive in supporting students who have high ACES scores and other trauma indicators, as the threshold to feeling physical, psychological and emotional safety will be higher for them.  3. USE: We have begun more regular 'kid talk' staff meetings and a more robust SST system for flagging students in need of extra relational support earlier in their time at our school. The goal here is to ensure that student needs are proactively identified and addressed before they grow into academic or interpersonal challenges.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
30103060133785|Oxford Preparatory Academy - Saddleback Valley|6|LCAP Student Survey Results - Given to all students in grades 4-8 Data: • OPA is a positive learning environment - 80.5% • OPA is a safe place to go to school - 85.3% • OPA administrators take bullying seriously - 71.2% • OPA administrators provide appropriate and fair discipline - 66.7% • At OPA, students respect me - 66.5% • At OPA, I trust teachers and staff - 76.7% • At OPA, teachers listen - 76.5% • At OPA , teachers help when I am upset - 61.8% • OPA provides adequate academic support - 82.9% • OPA provides adequate counseling services - 72% • OPA provides adequate character building activities - 60.2% • OPA provides challenging courses - 74.4% • OPA provides interesting clubs/activities - 73.8%  Meaning: • Students feel safe and supported at school  • Students trust teachers • Some students do not feel they are respected at school by other students.  • Some students feel teachers do not help when they are upset  • Students feel they are supported academically and social/emotionally.  • Some students feel that there are not enough character building activities • Students feel OPA provides challenging classes and interesting clubs and activities.  Use: • Support for building character a bit lower than other areas. This is being addressed through a strong focus on PBIS. The school is part of the PBIS cohort through the Orange County Department of Education, and is monitoring behavior data and creating positive reward systems. • Because some students feel teachers do not help when they are upset, we are focusing on counseling and increasing counseling services at the school. Additionally, more focus will be put on ways teachers can build relationships with students.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
30664640124743|Oxford Preparatory Academy - South Orange County|6|LCAP Student Survey Results - Given to all students in grades 4-8 Data: • OPA is a positive learning environment - 80.5% • OPA is a safe place to go to school - 85.3% • OPA administrators take bullying seriously - 71.2% • OPA administrators provide appropriate and fair discipline - 66.7% • At OPA, students respect me - 66.5% • At OPA, I trust teachers and staff - 76.7% • At OPA, teachers listen - 76.5% • At OPA , teachers help when I am upset - 61.8% • OPA provides adequate academic support - 82.9% • OPA provides adequate counseling services - 72% • OPA provides adequate character building activities - 60.2% • OPA provides challenging courses - 74.4% • OPA provides interesting clubs/activities - 73.8%  Meaning: • Students feel safe and supported at school  • Students trust teachers • Some students do not feel they are respected at school by other students.  • Some students feel teachers do not help when they are upset  • Students feel they are supported academically and social/emotionally.  • Some students feel that there are not enough character building activities • Students feel OPA provides challenging classes and interesting clubs and activities.  Use: • Support for building character a bit lower than other areas. This is being addressed through a strong focus on PBIS. The school is part of the PBIS cohort through the Orange County Department of Education, and is monitoring behavior data and creating positive reward systems. • Because some students feel teachers do not help when they are upset, we are focusing on counseling and increasing counseling services at the school. Additionally, more focus will be put on ways teachers can build relationships with students.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
56725380000000|Oxnard|6|The results of the 2018-2019 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for 5th grade students in Oxnard School District (OSD) indicated that 70% of 5th grade students reported “high levels of personal school connectedness”. This survey result is two percentage points lower than the result for the prior year administration of the CHKS. The results of the 2018-2019 administration of the CHKS for 7th grade students in OSD indicated that 54% of 7th grade students reported “high levels of personal school connectedness”. This survey result is one percentage points lower than the result for the prior year administration of the CHKS. It is important to note the CHKS results for grade 5 indicated 4% of students indicated “low” levels “Caring Adults in School”. In grade 7, 14% of students indicated “low” levels “Caring Adults in School”. OSD continues to identify an area of concern regarding student perception of school climate. The District’s work within the realm of Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports is not reaching all students, and there is a slight downward trend for students reporting “high levels” of “Caring Adults in School” at both grade levels within this critical indicator based upon 2018-2019 CHKS results. The District has dedicated significant resources within the last several years in support of PBIS, including providing one full-time counselor and one full-time outreach specialist at each school site. These site-based staff members increase the District’s capacity to meet the social/emotional/health needs of students. For the 2019 – 2020 school year, the District is utilizing a social and emotional learning survey as a formative assessment of student needs. The results of those surveys will guide school staff in identifying social and emotional student needs. School counselors and other support staff will provide additional social / emotional support to those identified students. Additionally, the District is continuing to expand its implementation plan for the delivery of restorative practices, including community circles. This plan provides other means of correction as an alternative to suspension as well as provides support for a positive classroom climate. The use of restorative practices is particularly important in working to reduce disparities in student group suspension rates. Alternatives to suspension are being robustly applied to the following student groups: African-American, English Learners, Students with a Disability, Foster Youth, Students Experiencing Homelessness and Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Students. School administrators are being trained in the use of alternatives to suspension and suspension rates for each school and each student group are being closely monitored by the Educational Services team. Any disproportionality in suspension rates causes a conference with the site administration to develop a remediation plan.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
56725460000000|Oxnard Union High|6|Key learnings from the district's California Healthy Kids Survey show overall positive progress in regards to school safety. On the topic of, Experiencing Any Harassment or Bullying, in the previous year, 30% of 9th grade students and 23% of 11th grade students reported they experienced some type of harassment or bullying. Last year, there was a decrease for 9th grade students to 25% and 11th grade students maintained at 23%.  On the topic of, Had Mean Rumors or Lies Spread About You, there was a decrease for both 9th and 11th grade students. For 9th grade students it moved from 32% to 26% and for 11th grade students it moved from 27% to 26%. On the topic of, Being in a Physical Fight, there was a decrease for both 9th and 11th grade students.  For 9th grade students it moved from 12% to 10% and for 11th grade students it moved from 9% to 7%. After reflecting on the data, an area of strength we found was the district's continued implementation of Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS). It is one of the major approaches the district uses to improve school safety and promote positive behavior. The district will continue implementing the PBIS framework with fidelity to increase these two areas. The addition of Student Intervention Specialists (SIS) has also positively contributed to the upward trend as they assist students and contribute to school wide support and management. This SIS position has been renewed for the following year.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
45699710135830|PACE Academy Charter|6|PACE Academy Charter focuses on helping students overcome serious behavioral challenges and progress in academics.  Three-fourths of the students are male.  64% of students report that they like school; this is significant given that these students have had a history of struggling in traditional school settings.  80% report that they tried hard at school and over 50% say they "look forward to school."  An area for growth is with regard to students showing respect to one another (46% positive).  This is consistent with comprehensive sites in terms of relatively lower positive response than other questions.  This is inherently a challenge because students enrolled at PACE have behavioral challenges that have interfered with their academic and interpersonal success.  PACE has behavior aides and a counselor to offer students additional support.|2019-11-06|In 2018-19 PACE had students enrolled in K-12.  The charter was changed to K-8 for 2019-20.|Met|2019
45700940000000|Pacheco Union Elementary|6|The survey conducted in fall 2018 indicates that student safety is not an overall concern to students or families.  85% of students and families surveyed feel safe at school.  In the upper grades, the issue of safety and perception of being safe at school becomes a bit more skewed.  Students in the 6-8 grades feel less safe at school, which also results in feeling less connected.  This indicates that a challenge in our upper grades would be students feeling safe and connected, as well as families feeling that the communication is open and opportunities for engagement are readily available.  The LEA has responded to this data by hiring a full time vice principal who is focused primarily on student safety and discipline.  We have also implemented a new program on our playgrounds called "Peaceful Playgrounds" which promotes positive choices while interacting with peers in an unstructured setting.  We have weekly meetings with classified staff to address concerns and implement new strategies to increase student engagement and decrease student behaviors.  We have a school counselor who meets with troubled students and small groups to discuss strategies for positive peer interactions.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37680490136416|Pacific Coast Academy|6|Our annual parent and student school climate survey results are positive. In general, the vast majority of parents believe their children/teenagers are receiving a good education, feel safe and connected with our school, receive appropriate academic support, and are able to effectively communicate and interact with teachers and administrators.  Students also indicate they feel connected to the school and look forward to school each day.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
44697994430229|Pacific Coast Charter|6|According to the Youth Truth Survey administered in the Fall of 2018, 80% of 5-8 students felt that they had formed strong relationships with people at PCCS, and reported that they felt a strong sense of belonging and collaboration while attending the school. For the high school students the numbers were lower but still came in above the national average, with 63% of students reporting strong relationships, and 52% of students stating that they felt a strong sense of belonging and collaboration. Based on an LCAP school-wide survey of  students given out in the Spring however, 83% of high school students reported that they had a very positive outlook of their overall experience at Pacific Coast Charter. The school continues to provide students and families with an inclusive and welcoming educational experience at PCCS, and although there is the challenge of having the students be independent and home school learners, the staff works to provide field trips, events, workshops, and on-site classes and activities that help provide the students with a sense of connectedness and belonging that enhances their academic experience.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
44104474430252|Pacific Collegiate Charter|6|Pacific Collegiate School participated in the 2018-2019 California Healthy Kids Survey.  From that survey, the school was assessed on School Climate Report Card as having a School Climate Index of PCS of 369.  The average School Climate Index in the state is 300.  A score of 369 puts PCS in the 91st percentile amongst all high schools in the state and in the 79th percentile amongst similar schools.  In particular, students assessed PCS particularly highly in the domain of high expectations and caring relationships (score = 408) and perceived school safety (score = 385).  91% of students have a strong feeling of safety at the school in the 2018-2019 survey (as opposed to 60% of students statewide on the 2015-2017 survey).  In addition 67% say that their parents feel welcome to participate in the school (43% statewide) and 70% believe that the school is neat and tidy (39% statewide).  The School Climate Report Card indicated areas of growth for PCS.  Only 58% feel a part of the school (51% statewide), 19% feel harassed or bullied (24% statewide), and 33% experience chronic sadness/hopeleness (31% statewide).  While PCS is in alignment with student experiences across the state in these arenas, these are areas where PCS feels that they have the most pressing need to grow.  When looking at disaggregated data from the 2018-2019 survey, some interesting disparities emerge and further research is warranted.  In 7th grade, amongst data related to the perception of school support, the only criteria where there was a significant disparity (more than 10%) within reported subgroups was with regard to parental participation in the school.  73% of white students reported that their parents were involved in the school, whereas only 60% of mixed ethnicity students reported so.  This disparity was not apparent in the 9th grade or 11th grade surveys.   In the 9th grade the only significant disparity was on the issue of academic motivation where 70% of white students were assessed as having strong academic motivation and 56% of mixed ethnicity students were reported as such.  There were three areas of disparity in 11th grade, students who report strong levels of overall school supports (Whites = 66%, Mixed ethnicity = 55%), students who report having a caring adult at the school (White = 82% and Mixed ethnicity = 58%), and perception that adults have high expectations (White = 88%, Mixed ethnicity = 72%).  Because these disparities do not occur across grade levels, we would like to monitor these disparities over time in order to see if they persist over time, and develop programs and responses to persistent issues.   Overall, the Healthy Kids data will be used in the 2019-2020 strategic planning process and in our 2020 WASC self study in order to develop strategic goals for the next 5 year cycle.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
23655576116669|Pacific Community Charter|6|When surveyed at the K-8 site, 80% of students in grades 1-5 felt that they contributed to the well-being of the school community. 71% said that they “do their best” or “strive for success” in all their classes. 65% of students felt that there was “respect and courtesy” in their classroom. In 3rd thru 5th grade, 38% of students felt bullied at school, “Rarely,” or “Never.” 100% of students said that they “Never” bullied someone else at school, and 75% of students said they “Rarely” or “Never” witnessed someone else being bullied at school. Only 27% of middle school students reported that they contributed to the well-being of the school. 40% said they “Actively strive for success” in all of their classes and only 13% felt that there was “Respect and Courtesy” in their classrooms.  Also in 6th thru 8th grade, 73% of students reported that they “Rarely” or “Never” felt bullied in school. 93% said they “Rarely” or “Never” bullied someone else, and 67% said they “Rarely” or “Never” witnessed someone else being bullied at school. 50% of students at the Pacific High School, when asked what they like best about the school, reported that relationships were the most important aspect of the school’s culture. Statements supporting this included “People get along,” “I love that you really get to know your teachers and build relationships with them,” “Friends,” “Culture,” ”It’s very welcoming,” and “The communication.”  25% of students appreciated the small, intimate atmosphere of the school and 24% of students mentioned personal independence and self-expression as their favorite school qualities.  When asked what they would like to see changed, most students had recommendations regarding specific classes or facilities. Comments included “More classrooms,” “Two English classes so they are less crowded,” “Online classes,” and “Less Passages/ More points per Passage.” A few students recommended getting more help with finding an appropriate college and scholarships.  The Pacific School strives to engage all students in the continuous improvement of the school's culture. All students at the K-8 site participate in "Morning Meetings" during which school and classroom agreements are reviewed and problems are addressed. Students also offer appreciations to classmates and teachers.  Students at the High School participate in daily meetings during Community Leadership and Service class. These meetings cover a wide range of topics, from cleaning assignments to fieldtrips and fundraising. Concerns and complaints are also addressed and, using a restorative approach, resolution is sought.   Early in the 2018-19 school year, anticipated social/emotional counseling abruptly ended and we were not able to replace it. Resources in our area are so limited that no qualified applicant was available. Thankfully, for the 2018-19 school year the school has contracted with a local agency to provide these invaluable services.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
44697810000000|Pacific Elementary|6|Pacific enrollment is so small that when we first administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHIKS) we were not given results because they were invalidated by the "N" being too small.  The most recent survey was given to 5th/6th graders in order to increase the number of respondents.  Unfortunately, opt-outs reduced the number and again rendered it invalid.  A local survey indicates that our students are not involved in troubling behaviors such as alcohol and drugs but sometimes struggle with social media.  To address that issue, our GATE/Media Literacy instructor addresses digital citizenship issues with older students. Aside from that issue, our small size is an advantage and most issues can be dealt with on an individual level.   The staff has formed a Culture and Climate Committee (CCC) in order to improve the conditions of learning at school.  The CCC has developed a document that precisely describes expectations, rules, consequences to guide both student behavior and adult enforcement of behavioral expectations.  Consistency of implementation is frequently challenged by assimilating new staff.  We address this challenge by pairing veteran staff with novice staff.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
27661340000000|Pacific Grove Unified|6|For 2018-2019  Pacific Grove Unified administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. Every year the results of the California Healthy Kids Survey are reported to the board of trustees at a regularly scheduled meeting.The survey results for 5th grade (average for both elementary schools) showed that 81% felt connected to school, 94.5% felt academically motivated, 79% felt adults cared for them, 90% felt safe at school, 83% had social & emotional supports, 80% felt there was an anti bullying climate. Both elementary schools continue to implement Toolbox a character programs to build cultures of respect and growth mindsets to enhance academic achievement. For grades 7, 9, and 11 we looked at the following criteria related to school connectedness, safety and social emotional well being. In grade 7 (66%), grade 9 (67%), grade 11 (64%) feel connected to school. In grade 7 (75%), grade 9 (73%), grade 11 (76%) feel academically motivated. In grade 7 (81%), grade 9 (78%), grade 11 (76%) felt the adults set high expectations. In grade 7 (67%), grade 9 (61%), grade 11 (67%) felt adults at school were caring. In grade 7 (74%), grade 9 (72%), grade 11 (67%) felt safe at school. Regarding social emotional areas the survey revealed an increase from 17/18 to 18/19  in feelings of chronic sadness and hopelessness ( 20% to 29%) grade 7 and grade 9 (31% to 34%) and grade 11 (30% to 29%) with a small decrease in this category. Given this increase for 7th, 9th and a small change in 11th grade in this area, the high school is paying careful attention to providing support for all incoming 9th graders with the Freshman Academy. Although we have seen a decrease  with the number of students stating they had considered suicide from 17/18 to 18/19 respectively grade 9 (23% to 17%) and grade 11 (19% to 8%), the high school is continuing its efforts with suicide prevention practices and supports for students. The high school is implementing the Core Social Emotional Learning and the OLWEUS surveys to capture students who are at risk. The high school has outreach programs, counseling services, and other monitoring programs focused on suicide prevention. The middle school is hosting assemblies on suicide prevention, counseling services, and providing Smart Social Cyber Safety Curriculum as well as an ongoing data collection focused on “Students of Concern”. The OlWEUS survey is administered to all middle school students to identify concerns related to bullying as a preventive measure and build awareness and design programs to encourage students to stop bullying behavior.The middle school is also implementing Character Strong, a program designed to build a safe and positive school culture. To address social emotional supports, we have allocated more funding to counseling services at the elementary, Middle and High School.|2019-06-06|District wide, all school counselors and school psychologists are trained in Suicide Risk Assessment, Safety Plans and Trauma Informed Practices. All attended an AB2246 full day training on Suicide Prevention, Intervention and Postvention. The team meets regularly and has developed a district-wide strategic plan to ensure compliance with AB2246 including the identification of 1. School Site Crisis Teams, 2. The development of districtwide suicide risk assessments, protocols and processes, 3. Staff training on warning signs and referral process, 4. Student training by the Center for Suicide Prevention, 5. Campus wide posters and brochures at secondary schools, 6. Suicide/Crisis Hotline number printed on the back of secondary schools student identification cards, 7. General guidelines for parents (elementary and secondary) provided with Suicide/Crisis Hotline number, 8. For World Suicide Prevention Day lapel pins for staff and notecards for students that say, “You make today better”.|Met|2019
39686760124248|Pacific Law Academy|6|PLA PLUS Survey results with 199 students participating/ Sep 2019: 66% of students enjoy participating in school activities 74% of students feel like they are part of the school 75% of students think teachers care about students 70% of students feel teachers treat students fair 81% of students believe teachers acknowledge them for good work 86% of students believe teachers believe in their students’ success 76% of students feel safe on campus  PLA students relatively feel strongly that their teachers care about their success and acknowledge when students are successful. However, only 70% of students believe teachers are fair. This could reflect the new rigorous course curriculum in math and ELA in grades 9-10 in which students and teachers alike are becoming acclimated. Just over ? of the students surveyed believe that they are part of the school, and ? enjoy participating in school activities. These responses may reflect the feeling that student athletes play for Stagg HS, not PLA, and students may feel conflicted. These numbers are an improvement from last year, and that nay be because of new teachers in our ASB and PLUS programs leading our leadership students.  PLA has been fortunate to be able to recruit great teachers to replace great teachers. As a result, ASB Leadership has a new, dynamic and experienced teacher this school year, and PLUS, ignored as a club last year, is now a class with a new teacher excited to see to what heights he will be able to take this class.  Student recruitment and retention has also improved over the last two years, and students in grades 9-10 are far more spirited and connected with their school than students in grades 11-12. This is a trend PLA intends to continue moving forward, improving how students feel about their school and raising the enthusiasm of our students. A goal for PLA is also teacher retention. Over the last two years, PLA has replaced ? of it’s teaching staff. Continued push for intentional teacher professional development is an important concern in this area.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
37103710138016|Pacific Springs Charter|6|During the 2018-19 school year, students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). Student survey results were reported out in elementary (grades 3-5) and middle school (grades 6-8) groups.    The school analyzed survey results and identified Glows (areas of strength) and Grows (identified areas for growth).  The Glows were: (1) 82%  of students believe all students can learn, (2) 93% believe school is a safe learning environment, (3) 85% of students do not use alcohol or marijuana.  Identified Grows include: Students reported that teachers need more support and training on handling difficult behaviors, students need more counseling support at school, and some students report a feeling of sadness or hopelessness sometimes.   The MTSS leadership had a data analysis meeting and highlighted the summary data for the student center, regarding school culture and student well-being. MTSS administrators sent the full report to the principal and the administrative director of Professional development and made recommendations.  The school is in year 1 of implementing Habits of Success to address the ""Springs Has Heart"" goal and emphasize the importance of addressing the social emotional needs of our students as well as academics.  In addition the LEA conducts an annual stakeholder engagement survey, which includes questions about school safety and connectedness.   These results were reported to the Governing Board during the LCAP process in June 2019.  The school plans to include an additional segment of the CHKS in the 2020-21 school year stakeholder survey.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
10623560000000|Pacific Union Elementary|6|Pacific Union administers an annual student survey to students in grades Tk-8. Students in grades Tk-2 complete the survey as a class, submitting one survey of responses per classroom. 210 surveys were completed during the 2018-19 school year. Results indicate that 88% of students look forward to coming to school; 93% of students feel safe at school; and 74% of students feel comfortable speaking to teachers and/or administration. 95% of students who completed the survey indicated that the bathrooms are always/sometimes clean and in working order. The results of the survey were used to direct ongoing upgrades and improvements including increased security cameras, and campus and bathroom upgrades. We will also be working in conjunction with our local county office, local law enforcement, and local JPA in order to increase safety and decrease chronic absenteeism. The number of students who completed the annual survey was 21% higher than in 2017-18. We will take steps to ensure that most, if not all, students complete the 2019-20 student survey. In order to increase students' school connectedness, Pacific Union has increased psychological services, counseling services, and implemented Social and Emotional Learning school-wide. The objective is to strengthen students' social and emotional skills, increase positive behavior, and promote an environment of acceptance.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
12629760000000|Pacific Union Elementary|6|Our school mission is to educate our students to become lifelong learners who will contribute productively to the world they inherit. Pacific Union strives to address the diverse needs of all students. In partnership with the community, Pacific Union’s highly-qualified staff members provide a safe and healthy environment where students experience opportunities to become positive and successful citizens under the umbrella of our Code of Conduct, where the entire Pacific Union community (staff, parents and community members, and students) practices being safe, responsible and respectful.  Pacific Union implements the Second Step program and has a schoolwide positive discipline Code of Conduct. We utilize the results of the California Healthy Kids Survey, LEA-designed surveys, and the School-wide Information System as part of the Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) to collect, summarize, and use data for decision-making. Expectation Station signage is posted prominently, and students who observe the expectations at an exemplary level are honored with Golden Tickets. Golden Ticket recipients are honored at monthly Golden Ticket assemblies, which focus on a relevant theme. We have a dynamic counseling program, and we work closely with Humboldt State University to utilize its psychology and social work fieldwork students in our program to develop positive behavior supports, create friendship groups, and provide group and individual support.  The school climate survey is given biannually and will be given in the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37735693731221|Pacific View Charter|6|PVCS conducts biannual student surveys. The last one was issued at the end of the school year 2019.  90% of responding students rated their overall satisfaction with the school as good to great. 86% of students feel supported by their teachers and that they received sufficient help with their school work. 95% of students feel supported in overcoming difficulties.This indicates that efforts to create a warm and supportive environment for students have been successful and that the relationships that develop between the supervisory teacher and student are valuable and different from the traditional high school model. Also in support of this, are the survey results indicating that 66% of students feel that the staff takes bullying seriously and 95% feel safe at school. School support and safety is an area of strength for PVCS, with students reporting that the school is “a sanctuary”.   However, only 78% of students said they felt that PVCS was preparing them well for life beyond high school. And students continue to request additional options for socialization outside of the classroom. Students would like to have more clubs, sports and field trips, including college trips. To address these items, the following planned actions have been identified in Pacific View’s LCAP:   Goal 1: -Continue to expand and improve resources and services to students and parents to provide a sense of safety, school connectedness, and increased student motivation. Goal 4: Prepare all students to graduate with the tools necessary to enter into community colleges, universities and the workforce.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
12755151230150|Pacific View Charter 2.0|6|Data Narrative:  According to the trends in the student school climate survey conducted in 2019, the majority of students feel close to people at the school, are happy, feel like they are part of the school, safe at the school and that teachers treat students fairly.  According to the trends in the parent-school climate survey conducted in 2019, there was a greater than 90% “Agree” with the climate measures in the survey including Teacher communication to parents’ expectations and School Staff takes parent concerns seriously. Parents feel welcome to participate fell slightly from +90% to 87.93%, for an unknown reason.  All measures had the majority in the “Strongly Agree” response. Out of the parents sampled, no parent marked a “Disagree” in any of the measures. According to the trends in the teacher school climate survey conducted in 2019, there was a greater than 90% “Agree” with all-climate measures in the survey. Teachers feel connected to all staff and regularly collaborate with other teachers Teacher’s feel connected to each of their students. Out of the staff surveyed, only one marked strongly disagree that the staff feels connected.  ?Meaning:  According to the trends, Pacific View Charter 2.0 contains an overall positive climate. The current challenge is to increase “Strongly Agree” marks within the teacher and student survey. The greatest challenge and area of growth in the survey data is in the student survey portion “I feel close to people at this school” with the majority of students marking “neither agree/disagree”.  Use of Survey through Action:  LEA recognizes the need for students to feel close to people at this school. At the MARC, the staff has implemented movie and BBQ nights, basketball tournaments with staff, and 1 BBQ lunch day a quarter. The construct of an independent school creates a barrier that hopefully will be lowered by increasing field trips and off-site activities. MARC received professional development at the start of the year with ACE training/ and trauma-informed care to assist with building better report with students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
41689320000000|Pacifica|6|A Climate Survey through Panorama was given to all 3-8th grade students in Pacifica School district in the early fall of 2017, 2018 and 2019. In the fall of 2017, the overall response rate for this climate survey was 87%. In questions relating to connectedness to school, 81% of 3-5 grade students responded positively and 69% of 6-8 grade students responded positively . With questions around their perceptions of school safety, 70% of students in 3-5 responded positively and 65% of 6-8 responded positively. In the Fall of 2018, the overall response rate for this climate survey was 85%. In questions relating to connectedness to school, 83% of 3-5 grade students responded positively and 70% of 6-8 grade students responded positively . With questions around their perceptions of school safety, 69% of students in 3-5 responded positively and 66% of 6-8 responded positively. As of this submittal, the students are presently taking the survey and the results have not been calculated. These results show that the perceptions of the students with regard safety and school connectedness have been fairly consistent one year to the next. A closer look at the individual school results may give us some ideas to which actions and strategies are effective and promote improvement in student safety and connectedness to school.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
19647336018642|Pacoima Charter Elementary|6|The Healthy Kids Survey for the current year will be given to all students in grades 3-6 in the month of November.  The results from the previous year indicated that students at Pacoima Charter School feel safe and like being at school.  A small number of students feel that there is bullying going on at the school.  Most of the students know who to go for help.  They like the support systems in place such as the Social Work department and the Positive Solutions room.  S|2019-06-18|The school climate at Pacoima Charter School is very positive.  We have less than 3 percent suspension rate.|Met|2019
44697990000000|Pajaro Valley Unified|6|Pajaro Valley Unified School District administers a climate survey, Youth Truth, annually to all students grades 3-12.  In addition, every other year, Pajaro Valley Unified School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey in grades 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th.  The last California healthy Kids Survey was administered in April of 2019.  Since the last California Healthy Kids Survey, student school connectedness  was stable or slight decline, while academic motivation and high expectations increased for middle and 9th grade school students.  Across all grade levels, students perception of school safety was stable or increased.  Chronic truancy for grades 7 and 11 increased while grade 9 decreased.   In looking at the data, PVUSD has strengths with respect among adults to students, student to student and student to adults and the culture of fairness.  Growth areas are academic rigor, student engagement and chronic truancy.  To address the ares of growth, PVUSD has launched several initiatives computer immersion & computer science pathways (K-12), Latino Film Institute, El Sistema, Save the Music, Ethnic Studies course offerings and remodeling of classrooms to mirror 21st century learning environments.  Additionally, 100% of PVUSD schools have implemented Positive Behavior Interventions Supports (PBIS) with early adopters strengthening their implementation with 4 schools receiving bronze level and 4 schools receiving silver level recognition by the state.  To support the fluxuating needs of students, all schools have a social-emotional counselor assigned and PVUSD partners with Pajaro Valley Prevention and Student Assistance to provide additional counseling support. Lastly, PVUSD continues to examine our disciplinary practices in an effort to further reduce exclusionary disciplinary practices and have started to provide wrap around supports to students in lieu of suspensions. The implementation of initiatives has increased student connectedness and PBIS has decreased student office referrals.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
04615230000000|Palermo Union Elementary|6|The PBIS School Climate Survey was administered to students in 3rd through 7th grade in the 2018-2019 school year.  Results are measured on a scale of 1 to 4; higher scores indicate a more positive response. 3rd grade overall mean score: 3.41  4th – 5th grade overall mean score: 3.08 6th-7th grade overall mean score: 2.98 Statement:    3rd grade 4th-5th grade 6th-7th grade I like school:    3.45  2.65  2.81 I feel safe at school:   3.38  3.22  2.69 Adult to help/talk to:   3.43  3.6  2.96   Successful at school:   3.31  2.8  2.98 Clear rules for behavior:   3.75  3.53  3.16 Teachers treat me with respect:  3.66  3.48  3.17 Key Learnings: The data suggests that overall, the student’s perception of the school climate falls on the more positive end of the scale; while the higher grades have a somewhat less positive perception.  The highest scores occur in 3rd grade and then decrease a little in the following grade spans.  It appears that students feel less successful and less safe at school in the upper grades, however, only 394 students out of approximately 1300 submitted completed surveys.  Areas of strength at all sites are that there are clear rules for behavior and that teachers treat students with respect.  In order to improve the reliability of the data, we need to collect completed surveys by a more significant percentage of the student population district-wide. In order to improve the overall school climate district wide and increase the student’s feelings of connectedness to their school, staff participated in the Capturing Kids Hearts training this summer and have been implementing the CKH procedures and strategies to build positive connections with all students.  In addition, we implemented the 7 Mindsets social-emotional curriculum district wide and continue to improve and refine the Positive Behavior Intervention and Support strategies on all campuses.  Data collected during the spring of 2020 will provide the data for the district and school sites to determine if they implemented actions have produced the results that we are seeking.  In addition, each school site continues to analyze achievement data in order to determine intervention and core instructional strategies to improve student outcomes and their feelings of success at school.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
19647336018634|Palisades Charter Elementary|6|LAUSD administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during every fall semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate: • LAUSD schools were perceived to be safe places by at least 85% of students. When students were asked if adults treated them with respect, 97% of elementary students replied in the affirmative while only 80% for LAUSD. School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 82% for LAUSD and 94% at Palisades Charter ES|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647331995836|Palisades Charter High|6||||Not Met|2019
33670586031991|Palm Desert Charter Middle|6|The students of Palm Desert Charter Middle School completed a school-wide student survey from Panorama, a professional survey organization, measuring several aspects of our school climate such as Sense of Belonging (Student Connectedness), Climate of Support for Academic Learning, Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules and Norms, and Safety. Additionally, our school site administered a survey, written with the help of our Renaissance students, that covered school safety, cleanliness, academics, cafeteria, and support from faculty, administration, and staff. Both surveys were administered during class time and therefore, gave us a valid reflection of our student body (1,390 students) with 949 responding to the Panorama survey, and 1,188 students participating in the school-site specific survey. Both surveys gave us interesting and valuable information. The Panorama survey data summary states 77% (up +2%) of PDCMS students feel there is a Climate of Support for Academic Learning, 66% (up +6%) of our students gave a favorable measurement to Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules, and Norms, and a 67%  (up +1%) favorable measurement in Safety and a 69% (up +3%) favorable rating in Sense of Belonging. These scores demonstrated that the programs and policies we have in place are improving our students’ connectedness to school. Whereas our local school-generated survey states 86% (down 5%) students believe their teachers expect them to go to college, 89% favorable rating that the classrooms are positive learning environments,  96% of students are familiar with school policies and rules,  and 80% (up 3%) of our students enjoyed their elective classes. Our school site culture is based on common values and guiding principles: Respect, Perseverance, Open-mindedness, Responsibility, and Teamwork. Based on the data, our school site decided to implement several actions to continue to build a strong and positive school climate such as: rewriting the student agenda to outline and clarify rules, a 6th grade Preview Day that included an introduction of the student agenda, ASB and club-sponsored activities to encourage student engagement, weekly character recognition awards, and school spirit competitions based on color teams.  Additionally, we have implemented the positive behavior tracking program called HERO to address school connectedness for all our students.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
30664236027379|Palm Lane Elementary Charter|6|Palm Lane gave a climate survey to students in grade 6.  There were 41 respondents.  The first question asked if students felt safe when at Palm Lane and 90.2% of 6th grade students said yes, they feel safe, while 9.8% of students said they did not.  The next question asked if students felt that it was easy to make friends.  73.2% of students said it was easy, while 26.8% of students said it was not easy to make friends.  Next, the survey asked if students had a clear understanding of what it means to treat others with kindness and respect.  The results showed that 61% of students said YES, they do because both their parents and their teachers teach them about kindness and respect, whereas as 9.8% said they know only from their parents; 24.4% said only from their teacher, and 4.9% said they did not know at all what it meant to treat others with kindness and respect.  The next question asked if students would report if they were being bullied and 39% said they would ALWAYS, 26.8% said they would SOMETIMES, 14.6% said they would RARELY, and 12.2% said they would NEVER report bullying.  The final question asked if students thought teachers and staff at Palm Lane were honest and fair and 92/7% said YES, they think teachers are honest and fair, whereas 12.2% stated NO, they did not think staff were honest and fair.  Palm Lane is building its schoolwide PBIS training and will use this data during the planning and implementation of a school-wide system of building a positive school culture where students make good choices and trust staff to help them work through and handle conflict.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
33671730000000|Palm Springs Unified|6|In the Winter of 2019, Palm Springs Unified School District administered school climate surveys to students in grades three through twelve through the Panorama Education data collection platform.  This was the second year in which the district used this survey to measure school climate.  4,856 elementary student surveys were submitted, and 11,426 secondary surveys were submitted.  66% of elementary students and 65% of secondary students reported favorable perceptions of school safety, placing the district near the 60th percentile in elementary and 50th percentile of districts when compared to national rates.  Socioeconomically disadvantaged (SED) students and English Learners (ELs) replied similar rates of favorability as their non-SED and non-EL peers, differing by no more than 2% within the grade spans. Hispanic students (elem 67%, sec 66%) reported higher safety ratings than African American (elem 59%, sec 56%) or White (elem 64%, sec 58%) student groups.  Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness) items focus on student impressions of being a part of the school.  75% of elementary students and 57% of secondary students responded favorably in this area, placing the district near the 60th and 40th percentiles respectively.  Results gaps in this area were like those reported in the safety area for SED students and non-SED students.  EL students (61%) in the secondary level reported five-percentage points higher in school connectedness than non-EL peers (56%), while elementary reporting was very similar between the groups (EL 75%, non-EL 74%).  This may be an indication that programs and supports for EL students are having a positive effect at the secondary level, however connectedness rates in secondary sites continue to be an area of focus for the district.  Hispanic students (elem 66%, sec 57%) reported higher connectedness ratings than African American (elem 56%, sec 48%) and White (elem 58%, sec 56%) student groups.  PSUSD continues to address connectedness perception differences as part of efforts related to equitable outcomes, improving suspension rates, and decreasing chronic absenteeism rates.  School sites include information regarding their survey results within School Plans for Student Achievement, outlining targets and goals specific to their results set.  PSUSD has actions aligned to school safety and school connectedness within the LCAP, focusing on decreasing gaps between groups and increasing overall favorability ratings.  To view these targets and actions, please refer to the PSUSD LCAP available on the PSUSD website at www.psusd.us.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19648570125377|Palmdale Aerospace Academy|6|At TPAA, we decided in 2017-18 to survey our 7th and 9th-grade students annually. Participation is voluntary and anonymously completed during Bridge via the California Healthy Kids Survey (CAHKS). In a brief overview found in the table below- two things become apparent. In recent years, the number of students reporting feelings of chronic sadness or hopeless feelings and students feeling unsafe have increased. Meanwhile, students report feeling more connected and supported at school overall. These findings reiterate the efforts that TPAA has made to increase personnel and program support across campus. This includes additions of positions such as a School Psychologist with the school’s aim to keep the students to counselor ratio lower than the state average of approximately 800:1. In addition to this, TPAA regularly encourages parent awareness and involvement as we believe this is an effective way to support our students in and out of school and has brought a mental health awareness program to the campus for our families.  As TPAA has recently expanded its student population to include TK-5, TPAA will be administering the CA Healthy Kid Survey to at least one grade level in this grade span to ensure that student perceptions of school safety and connectedness are properly captured. This year, TPAA would also like to see the percentage of students participating in the CAHKS increase.  A previous barrier to increasing the participation rate on the CAHKS is largely due to the length and anonymity of the survey which make it difficult to follow up with students. To address this barrier, TPAA will be working with staff to ensure that the survey is administered during a designated time and that the proper technological supports are in place. In an effort to collect additional information and increase student connectedness, TPAA has hosted LCAP student focus group luncheons for both middle and high school students. During these luncheons, students are randomly assigned to small groups, collaboratively respond to a series of questions, and share out their responses, facilitated by staff members. During these luncheons, students have expressed the desire for more electives and support around "life skills."   Recognizing the capacity in our students, TPAA would like to expand opportunities for students to actively participate in their school community by starting a Student CA School Dashboard Team, beginning in the second semester. This team would meet monthly to review general data about student performance, chronic absenteeism, and graduation metrics. During these meetings, students would be asked to review broad outcomes and identify factors that contribute to the metric- both successes and challenges. This will give staff valuable, actionable feedback based on student perceptions which is a limitation of the CAHKS as the data we receive is static to that one point in time.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
19648570000000|Palmdale Elementary|6|Priority 6 is the local climate survey, measuring students’ perception in 5th & 7th grade in the areas of school safety and connectedness. 41% of students in 5th and 29.5% of those surveyed in 7th felt safe at school – this includes areas surveyed of bullying, fighting, but also rumors. For the actual question of feeling safe at school, 77 % of 5th graders and and 58% of 8th reported feeling safe. For engagement and connectedness, 45.9 % in 5th and 21.83% in 7th felt connected, motivated and having meaningful participation. The highest areas rated were academic motivation and high expectations. For social – emotional learning, students in 5th had an average of 75% and in 7th , 48%, of feeling responsible for their actions and caring for how others feel.   PSD is continuing the training and implementation of the practices and strategies of Capturing Kids Hearts and Safe and Civil Schools in order to support and improve school safety and connectedness.|2019-08-20||Met|2019
43696410000000|Palo Alto Unified|6|DATA: PAUSD administers the California School Climate Health and Learning Survey (CalSCHLS) on a biennial basis for students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The 2017 administration revealed students’ perceptions of schools being safe at 88% (5th), 78% (7th), 78% (9th), and 86% (11th). Students’ reports of a caring adult (response: yes, all the time or high) was at 63% (5th), 40% (7th), 33% (9th), and 36% (11th). Student connectedness ratings of “high”: 66% (5th), 65% (7th), 65% (9th) and 63% (11th). Additional school climate data is available based on the number of reports/allegations of harassment due to gender, sex, national origin, race, ability status, religion, and other characteristics handled by the Title IX Office. Reports decreased from 210 in 17-18 to 134 in 18-19. Of 46 investigations conducted through the Uniform Complaint Procedure in 18-19, 41 ended in resolution (compared to 61/61 in 17-18). The median time to case closure was 60 days (average: 70 days) in 18-19.  MEANING: CalSCHLS data shows that safety is an area of strength, although there is a need to continue to focus on key transition grades of 7th and 9th. Connectedness and having a caring adult at school are areas of challenge, particularly in our secondary schools. For Title IX procedures, trainings and clear processes have led to improvement in responsiveness to complaints and timely resolution of matters.The decline in reporting warrants further exploration to understand what is contributing to this decrease.  USE: School connectedness and caring relationships were the focus of our district’s 2018-19 LCAP as a part of action 4.2 which addresses student safety with a focus on discrimination, harassment and sexual violence. The UCP/Title IX Office was created in 2018-19 to improve reporting and response procedures. The office provided training and supported staff, students and parents on the Uniform Complaint Procedures, Title IX rights, responsibilities and resources. In 2018-19 PAUSD expanded SEL program implementation from 9th to also include 10th grade. Middle school counselors attended professional learning to support SEL implementation and completed an inventory of existing SEL instruction. At the elementary level training on and use of Responsive Classroom was expanded. Summer SEL professional learning continues to be offered at all levels. The findings from the foster and McKinney-Vento youth focus groups led to increased training opportunities for staff to meet the needs of these subgroups, coordinated efforts among departments and schools, and expedited identification, monitoring, and service provision. In 18-19, CalSchls data was used in a broader outreach through the Student Wellness Council, the LGBTQ+ Council, counselors, mental health providers, and Site Councils to inform their work. It was also used as the basis for the PAUSD Promise, School Plans for School Achievement, Response to Intervention Plans, and to improve student' feelings of safety and connection.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
33671810000000|Palo Verde Unified|6|During the spring of 2018. PVUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to 5th, 7th, 8th, and 11th grade students throughout the district.The CHKS is administered every other year.  Elementary (5th grade): 230 enrolled, 76 participated (33%) Two survey results: Happy to be at school? 8 never, 13 some of the time, 37 most of the time, 41 all of the time Do you feel safe at school? 7 never, 21 some of the time, 31 most of the time, 40 all of the time  Secondary (7th grade): 239 enrolled, 188 participated (79%) (9th grade): 243 enrolled, 189 participated (78%) (11th grade): 248 enrolled, 159 participated (93%) Two survey results: Happy to be at school? 9 strongly disagree, 8 disagree, 28 neither disagree nor agree, 39 agree, 14 strongly agree Do you feel safe at school? 4 strongly disagree, 6 disagree, 18 neither disagree nor agree, 46 agree, 25 strongly agree  Because of this data and other data from CHKS, PVUSD added a fourth counselor at the secondary level (PVHS)l. PVUSD is also focusing on positive behavior Tier 1 and Tier 2 to improve school climate.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
54720330000000|Palo Verde Union Elementary|6|Palo Verde administers two surveys related to school climate and student engagement. The first is an annual local survey of staff, parents and students that emphasizes local concerns and is geared toward multiple grade levels. The second is the California Healthy Kids Survey. Both of these surveys confirm, by over 95% of stakeholders, that our school culture is positive and welcoming for students, staff, and parents. Palo Verde is a safe school where learning processes are not interrupted by outside influences or discipline issues. Palo Verde has a fair discipline policy, which is clearly understood and supported by staff, students, and parents; we have had few student suspensions and no student expulsions in the past 5 years, which is a clear indication of our positive and welcoming school climate. Palo Verde has partnered with the Tulare County Office of Education in implementing the Proposition 56 Anti-Tobacco Grant. A school resource officer from the Tulare County Sheriff’s Department, and a specialist from the TCOE CHOICES program come to Palo Verde one day per week to teach students grade 5-8 life skills.  Students are taught the adverse effects of tobacco, gangs, drugs, alcohol, and the risks associated with negative choices.  Palo Verde’s new motto is #Be Your Best, and students are encouraged to show the Character Counts Pillars. Student engagement is a crucial component for student success. Palo Verde’s desire is to involve students as active participants in their education by providing them with project based learning opportunities, test chats with students, and cross-curricular activities. The number of students participating in co-curricular activities such as Poetry and Prose, Science Fair, Spelling Bee and similar events has increased by at least 10% for each of the past four years, confirming that students are ever more engaged in academic life. Recently released California Healthy Kids Survey results continue to confirm that nine out of ten students believe they have an important part in decision-making in their classroom and school and feel strongly supportive of • School supports • Caring adults at school • High expectations of adults at the school • School connectedness • Parent involvement at the school, and • Academic motivation. Our goal is that every student reports a high degree of satisfaction with each of these factors. One of the ways we are addressing this is through on-campus intervention and support with schoolwide teacher training and a teacher assigned to coordinate services for students. Another way we are addressing this is through schoolwide approaches to student literacy and academic support. An approach that is showing substantive increase in student connectedness is co-curricular instructional field trip experiences that connect classroom experiences to real-world applications and experiences.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
19648650000000|Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified|6|PVPUSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey in grades 5 every other year and grades 7, 9, and 11 every year, and utilizes the data to school-wide decisions regarding vision and direction as well as programs (current data reporting is from last administration 2017-18 school year). The CA Healthy Kids is the only survey that every school participates in across the district regarding school climate. In the most recent CA Healthy Kids Survey, 90% of 5th graders and an average of 87% of secondary students took the survey felt safe at school. Additionally, 87% of 5th graders responded that they have a caring adult relationship at school and on average, 72% of secondary students felt they had a caring adult relationship at school. As a result of the responses, PVPUSD renewed a partnership with SAGE therapists at all secondary sites, in addition to the hiring of a Mental Health Coordinator to support a K-12 Mental Health Continuum of Services.|2019-10-23|In the most recent LCAP parent survey, 72% of parents who took the survey felt that the school fosters a climate of safety and 69% believe that the school fosters a climate of support.|Met|2019
15633620000000|Panama-Buena Vista Union|6|The Panama-Buena Vista Union School District (PBVUSD) administers a yearly survey in grades 4-8 to gather information regarding school climate and connectedness and overall student perceptions of school. This local student survey includes an opportunity for students to provide written feedback concerning any aspect of the survey. The information gathered from the survey is used to identify strengths and weaknesses to help determine necessary actions and services needed to best meet the needs of all students and schools. PBVUSD has focused efforts in seeking input from students to help drive decision making at both the school and District levels. The survey indicated 83% of students feel safe at school and 76% look forward to going to school each day. Some 76% of students surveyed feel part of their school. While 90% of students feel their teacher/principal is willing to listen if a student has a serious problem. The survey identified 42% of those surveyed feel students treat each other with respect. While the results of the survey overwhelmingly show students are comfortable going to an adult on campus with serious problems, there is still a clear need to improve respectful interactions between peers, especially in the junior high schools. PBVUSD has completed the process of executing a three-year implementation plan providing a Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) program at all sites and is focusing on deepening its universal Tier I and II systems. PBVUSD expects an increase in positive peer-to-peer interactions with continued PBIS implementation and refinement across the District.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
35675200000000|Panoche Elementary|6|Students at Panoche School completed the 'Student Climate Survey' October 4th, 2019. All students that completed the survey gave Panoche a grade of 'A'. In particular, 100% of students surveyed indicated that they feel safe at school, feel cared for and treated fairly by their teacher, and feel that they are doing their best in school. In general, students responded very positively to the questions. Students responded ‘Agree' or 'Strongly Agree' to 99% of statements posed. The Student Climate Survey highlighted 2 particular areas prime for growth. 33% of students responded ‘Disagree’ to the statement “I feel confident in my math abilities”. A program to remedy this matter has already been implemented at Panoche in response to this issue. Student conferences using SMART goals and STAR360 testing results have been conducted to find weaknesses in student math performance and assist students in taking ownership of their learning and goals, with the hope that this will promote student confidence in their individual math abilities.  Another area identified through the survey for growth is student understanding of learning objectives. Several students had questions regarding the survey statement “I know what I am supposed to be learning in my classes”. While 99% of students marked ‘Strongly Agree’ or ‘Agree’ on this statement, there was general confusion amongst respondents as to the statement’s true meaning. The solution, already implemented daily, is to begin each lesson with either a discussion or display of the CA state standard being taught and/or the expected learning outcome(s).|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19647330122630|Para Los NiÃ±os - Evelyn Thurman Gratts Primary|6|Since Gratts Primary Center students are in the lower grades (TK-1), we administered a research based social emotional survey that covered topics related to school engagement, positive school relationships, and valuing of school. Overall, students responded positively to each of the 14 questions (85-90% positive). Areas where improvement is needed is around student regulating their emotions and students exhibiting responsibility for their school environment. This year, the school implemented a program where students are recognized daily for exhibiting the school's values and weekly awards are given.  We added monthly awards for student of the month and citizen of the month in addition to the newly implemented monthly positive behavior assemblies.  We began with a very general assembly; subsequent assemblies focused on continuing of positive habits and reviewing with students areas of improvement.  The student have responded very well to the assemblies.  They hold each other accountable to exhibiting positive behaviors in and around the lunch area, play area, and the hallways around school.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
19647336120489|Para Los NiÃ±os Charter|6|Para Los Niños Charter Elementary School administered student climate surveys to all students in grades 3-5 using a questionnaire from a national vendor who has evaluated the questions for validity and reliability. Overall, in 2 of the 4 topics (school teacher-student relationships and school belonging), when compared nationally, we scored well above the national average. In the remaining two areas, school climate and school safety, we scored just below the national average.  The school experienced situations involving disagreements between friends in the upper grade levels.  In response to this, school leadership with the support of our Case Manager provided social skills lessons, “lunch bunch,” and other interventions for groups demonstrating social challenges. We will continue to implement programs that encourage collaboration, positive school culture, and social emotional learning, as we believe the work that has been done this year has attributed to these improvements.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
19647330117846|Para Los NiÃ±os Middle|6|Para Los Ninos Charter Middle School administered student climate surveys using a questionnaire from a national vendor who has evaluated the questions for validity and reliability. Overall, in 5 of the 5 topics (school teacher-student relationships, valuing of school, school belonging, school mindset and school engagement), when compared nationally, we scored below the national average, particularly in the area of school engagement. This year, a lot of work is being done to both involved families more in the day-to-day activities of their child through systems like class dojo, the parent portal, more student community events are being planned, and a social emotional curriculum is being implemented. We expect our results to increase this school year. Last year, we increased the number of events around the campus community in order to engage our students and families, as well as students and families of neighboring schools.  We are also continuing our work via advisory to building on the work around student climate that was begun last year.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
50712090112383|Paradise Charter|6|According to the 2018-2019 California Healthy Survey, seventh graders at Paradise Charter feel safe and are happy to be at school.  They strongly agree that their school is neat and tidy.  Students feel their teachers do a good job of communicating with parents.  We can see through the survey that students are happy to be here and feel they and their parents are treated fairly.  In the School Engagement and Support category, we need to do a better job of giving kids a chance to be involved with decision making.  We are lacking that meaningful participation they need to be a part of.  They need to have a say when it comes to school activities, rules, class activities, and how things work around the school.  We will work on putting together class meetings so that a representative from each class will come together and voice opinions and concerns.|2019-03-13||Met|2019
04615316112999|Paradise Charter Middle|6|Due to the Nov. 8 Camp Fire, school surveys were changed to reflect the vital need for crisis information throughout the remainder of the school year.  The surveys helped school staff learn about the needs of the families in crisis; essentially our entire student population.  Multiple surveys were used throughout the year to learn about where people were living, what their needs and challenges were, and to get input about school operations and future plans.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
50712090000000|Paradise Elementary|6|The data from the California Healthy Kids Survey found that the 7th grade students at Paradise Elementary feel very safe at school and not threatened by other students.  Students take pride in the fact that the school is clean and kept tidy.  They are happy to be here and feel close to other students at school.  In the School Engagement and Support category, we need to do a better job of giving kids a chance to be involved with decision making.  We are lacking that meaningful participation they need to be a part of.  They need to have a say when it comes to school activities, rules, class activities, and how things work around the school.  We will work on putting together class meetings so that a representative from each class will come together and voice opinions and concerns.|2019-03-13||Met|2019
04615310000000|Paradise Unified|6|We learned from our surveys that parents were extremely happy and proud to be part of our district family. The families that were forced to leave due to the Camp Fire were sorry to go. Parents were very appreciative of our phone calls and constant updates and communication. PUSD worked extremely hard to ensure that parents were involved and part of the decision making as to where our school sites would be located, what the names were, and even the hours (due to parents' travel time).   Our challenges are in the area of mental health and trauma recovery. Families are seeking any and all available services to help their child(ren) and themselves work through this horrific experience. We have found it necessary to communicate with many local, state, and national leaders to ensure that our students and families receive the mental health services they so desperately require.   The decisions we made based on parent input was to move our schools back up to Paradise and bus students as soon as is was safe (debris removed, air, water, and soil clean). We implemented these plans over the summer. All experts in disaster recovery told us to expect 30% of students to return. We are currently at 50.4% of our students returning.|2019-10-15|Now that the school year has settled in we are sending our a comprehensive, norm-referenced survey to all parents and students seeking input as to our school climates. We will base our goals on the results of this comprehensive survey.|Met|2019
58727360121632|Paragon Collegiate Academy|6|Paragon Collegiate Academy annually surveys parents, students and staff with regard to student safety, academics, and other issues pertinent to the individuals being surveyed. Survey results indicate that Paragon Collegiate Academy is doing well in regard to student safety, and continues to work on improving school climate. Paragon families report appreciation for campus safety measures and policies in place. Paragon strives to provide an open and welcoming environment to students, families, and the community, while still providing for student safety and security. Paragon families express appreciation for the smaller class sizes, increased awareness of what students are doing both academically, and what is going on in their personal lives and how that relates to their schooling, as well as the continual improvement of communication between the school and the home. Paragon Collegiate Academy purchased and renovated a new facility this summer, and are continually working on identifying and rectifying safety issues as they arise. Paragon appreciates parents and families notifying us of potential or actual safety issues that may have been missed, and we work to improve and/or rectify those situations immediately. This will continue to be an issue for a short time for Paragon, until we get all of the "bugs" worked out of our new site. Paragon also has new administration this year, with an increased focus on improving school culture and student outcomes. We have already seen a decrease in student suspensions, and an increase in positive outcomes for students. We are hopeful that these trends continue and students achieve increased outcomes.|2019-11-07||Met|2019
19648730000000|Paramount Unified|6|This Local Indicator is measured by students’ responses on a survey that includes questions about students’ perceptions of school safety.  This on line survey was administered to all 5th, 7th and 12th grade students.    Summary of Data and Key Findings  PUSD’s target for perception of school safety was based on the baseline from the PUSD Student Survey, administered in 2018-19.  The statement on the survey that students respond to is: “I feel safe when I am at school.”  Students responded with one of four responses: Strongly Agree, Agree, Disagree, Strongly Disagree.  The outcomes below reflect the percent of responses stating “Agree” and “Strongly Agree”.                  Target     Outcome Met or Not Met Grade 5  73%    86%         Met  Grade 7  57%    83%          Met  Grade 12  57%    82%         Met   Support and Next Steps For the past seven years, schools have implemented Safe and Civil Schools, a nationally recognized PBIS approach for creating positive relationships between students and adults.  Middle and high schools use restorative practices and selected schools have provided training in Capturing Kids’ Hearts.   Middle schools implement Where Everyone Belongs and high schools have active Link Crew teams; all of these approaches foster a positive, caring school climate and increase students’ connectedness with school. To further strengthen the social emotional support system for students, two elementary schools and every middle and high school has a full time Social Worker who works with counselors to provide mental health support and community resources for students and families.  In response to a need for a district wide social emotional learning curriculum, the district adopted and purchased Second Step for all K-8 schools.  Counselors and social workers will launch these materials in 2019-20.    Survey results on students’ perception of school safety were shared with school principals.  Principals will analyze site data to plan action steps specific to their school, which are included in annual goals.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
10623640000000|Parlier Unified|6|The outcome of our student climate survey indicates that more students at the elementary level took the survey, as compared to students at the high school level.  The elementary students amounted to 68% of all the students who took the survey, as compared to 32% of the secondary level students.  The following data shows the key results from the student survey:  64% stated their schools are clean and well maintained 79% stated their school is a safe place to attend school. 69% stated they felt comfortable talking to school staff to resolve a problem 82% stated there are staff members available when they have a problem on campus 80% stated that overall they enjoyed their time and felt welcomed at their school 83% stated they were proud to be a student at their school 76% stated they felt like they were part of the school community  After analyzing the outcome of the student survey, the district concluded that the majority of students feel safe in their schools, although there is still 21% who do not feel safe.  69% of the students surveyed felt comfortable talking to school staff when trying to resolve a problem.  There is still 31% who do not feel comfortable which is an area for potential growth or increase in the number of students who should feel comfortable communicating with a trusted adult on campus.  Conversely, more than 80% of students stated there are staff members available when they have problems on campus.       One of the actions the district will continue to implement is PBIS district-wide with greater focus at the secondary level.  In addition, the district will continue to implement conflict resolution opportunities for students as a preventative measure.  Alternatives to suspensions have also been instrumental in providing students with proactive actions that address student behaviors verses addressing problems in a punitive manner.  Parlier Unified is also monitoring student sub-groups disproportionality in terms of services provided or not provided, connection to school resources, and outcomes of student connectedness.  Parlier Unified also understands that positive school culture and climate is sustainable through professional development and constant communication.  The positive school climate is evident in schools that provide staff support, establish clear expectations, and practices are executed with consistency.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19648810113894|Pasadena Rosebud Academy|6|According to the school satisfaction survey 98% of the students feel safe at school. 98% of the parents feel welcome at school.    The disaggregated results of the school satisfaction survey reveal that 90% or more of the parents are satisfied with the instructional program.  90% or more of the parents and students are satisfied with the school climate.  Parents and students had a concern with the behavioral expectations.  17% of the parent/students felt that the behavioral expectations were not clearly defined or consistently and fairly enforced.  22% of the parent/students felt that discipline was not consistent and applied fairly to all students.    As a result of the findings, the school administration and staff have created and implemented policies and strategies that will allow for more clear, frequent, communication with other staff members, parents and students in an effort to ensure that discipline and behavioral expectations are clear, consistently, and fairly enforced. Weekly and monthly staff meetings include discussions surrounding student behavior and expectations.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19648810000000|Pasadena Unified|6|1. Data: This data is from the 2018-19 administration California Healthy Kids Survey. Parents and guardians of PUSD students in all grades were invited to participate in the survey.  1) School Connectedness: 70% (increased by 12%, from last year’s 59%) of 5th; 56% (increased by 1%, from 55%) of 7th; 64% (increased by 19%, from 45%) of 9th; and 56% (increased by 8%, from 48%) of 11th graders reported feeling connected to the school. Indicators for school connectedness were: I feel close to people at school. I am happy to be at this school. I feel like I am part of this school. Teachers treat students fairly at school.  2) Academic motivation: 85% (increased by 40%, from 45%) of 5th; 74% (increased by 37%, from 37%) of 7th; 78% (increased by 42%, from 36%) of 9th; and 74% (increased by 42%, from 32%) of 11th graders reported that they are academically motivated.  3) Caring Adult Relationships: 67% (increased by 7%, from 60%) of 5th; 58% (increased by 26%, from 32%) of 7th; 62% (increased by 33%, from 29%) of 9th; and 63% (increased by 29%, from 34%) of 11th graders reported having caring adult relationships. 4) High Expectations: 82% (increased by 19%, from 63%) of 5th; 72% (increased by 25%, from 47%) of 7th; 75% (increased by 31%, from 44%) of 9th; and 63% (increased by 27%, from 46%) of 11th graders reported being held with high expectations. 5) Meaningful Participation: 39% (increased by 19%, from 20%) of 5th; 26% (increased by 10%, from 16%) of 7th; 28% (increased by 17%, from 11%) of 9th; and 29% (increased by 15%, from 14%) of 11th graders reported feeling having meaningful participation. 6) School Safety: 75% (decreased by 3%, from 78%) of 5th; 54% (decreased by 11%, from 65%) of 7th; 59% (increased by 2%, from 57%) of 9th; and 58% (decreased by 5%, from 63%) of 11th graders reported feeling safe at schools.  2. Meaning: The data indicates that: Cross the board, among the students surveyed (5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th graders), in the areas of: 1) School Connectedness, 2) Academic motivation, 3) Caring Adult Relationships, 4) High Expectations, 5) Meaningful Participation, the “Strongly Agree” responses are all increase, with the highest increase by 42% in 9th & 11th graders’ “Academic Motivation” area. The data also indicates that students are feeling less safe than the previous year.  3. Use: PUSD will use these data to identify/assess the needs of the students and to incorporate the needs assessment results in the School Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) and District Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP), and to implement the plans identified services and actions to improve the school climate for students’ learning.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
34674210132019|Paseo Grande Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  99% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  99% reported that they felt connected to the school *  99% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
40754570000000|Paso Robles Joint Unified|6|Paso Robles Joint Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2019. Results serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate. Elementary - 5th Grade   95% School Connectedness           98% Caring Adult    87% Feel Safe at School   99% High Expectations   Middle School - 8th Grade   88% School Connectedness  93% Caring Adult    78% Feel Safe at School  90% High Expectations   High School - 11th Grade   83% School Connectedness   82% Caring Adult    80% Feel Safe at School  92% High Expectations   There has been an increase in both connectedness and the reports of a caring adult when comparing the data to the 2018-2019 school year CHKS. The Paso Robles Joint Unified School District believes that this increase is directly aligned to LCAP Goal 4 which states, Paso Robles Joint Unified School District will provide opportunities that support a culture of belonging and positive climate for all students, families, and staff. Through our K-12 Visual and Performing Arts Program, K-12 Athletic Program, PBIS, WEB program, and increased staff to support the social-emotional needs of all students, our district is leading the way for MTSS implementation and the belief that every student will have success. CHKS student data responses indicate that few students have a fear of physical or emotional attacks at school. Many of our LCAP Actions/Services address school safety including, adding an additional School Resource Officer, security cameras, surveillance cameras, Active Shooter training, and a Dean of School Culture/Climate. The district engages students in the LCAP process through the LCAP Student Advisory Committee which will meet in the 2019-2020 school year. The committee is comprised of 9th – 12th-grade students representing all students including low-income students, and English learners.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37754160139451|Pathways Academy Charter - Adult Education|6|Data:  Adult Student/ParentParticipation Students in student groups: EL 6.3%, SWD 12.5%,  Low Socioeconomic 75%, N/A 6.2% Ethnicity of Survey Participants: White 14.3%, Hispanic/Latino 50%, Two or More 14.3%, Af American 14.3%, Pac Islander 7.1% Overall % in agreement with the school providing: Challenging Academic Instruction and Assessment 100% Additional Academic Support 92.3% Positive School Climate 100%  School and Teacher Communication and Support 100% Feeling Safe and Welcome to Meet with the Teacher to Discuss Progress 100% Connection to School 100% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 100% Meaning: Strength in overall satisfaction rate with the school program. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and, the school's building partnerships with parents. Use: Identify resources to provide additional academic support. Tutors, English Learner and Special Education Support to provide additional support are available.  Provide Training/professional development for teachers in response to intervention and creating performance improvement plans (PIP).|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19753090134585|Pathways Academy Charter Adult Education|6|Data: Adult Student/ParentParticipation  Participant Ethnicity: Hispanic 100%  Overall % in agreement with: Teacher is available to speak with me when I need guidance and support 100% Challenging grade level instruction and assessment of my academic progress 100% Engaging curriculum and instruction. I am able to complete the coursework on time 100% My teacher cares about my education and is committed to helping me succeed 100% I feel safe and welcome to meet with my teacher to discuss my progress 100% Overall, I feel satisfied with my school 100% Overall, I feel that the school does a great job communicating with me 100% There is additional support for my academic or developmental needs 100% If I have a problem, there is someone at school I can talk to 100%  Meaning: Overall strength in the satisfaction with the Pathways Academy school program. Use: Continue staff collaboration on research based strategies to invite and encourage adult student participation to build partnerships with stakeholders. Identify research-based strategies to continue the growth of the positive school climate of this school.  Data Staff Survey Participant Results Improving the Academic achievement of all students:  100% survey participants agree that the curriculum and resources available provide students the ability to master grade level standards and graduation requirements. 100% survey participants agree that the school clearly communicates academic expectations and encourages academic excellence 100% survey participants agree that this school collaborates with students and parents for setting and achieving academic goals.  Positive School Climate and Connectedness 100% survey participants agree that this school communicates upcoming meetings, events and deadlines. 100% survey participants agree that this school prioritizes that students and parents feel valued and respected.  Establishing Connections and Partnerships 100% survey participants agree that this school prioritizes creating and maintaining two-way communication with students and parents so that they feel safe and welcome to discuss student progress and ask for help.  100% survey participants agree that this school partners with parents to support student academic learning and achievement. 100% survey participants agree that this school values students background, culture and diversity. College and Career Readiness and Technical Education 100% survey participants agree that there is support for high school students to be on the correct path to graduate from high school and to become college and career ready.  Overall Satisfaction and Input 100% satisfaction in support provided to students, input opportunities, and professional development/training. Meaning: Strength in the overall satisfaction of the Pathways Academy program.  Use: Staff collaboration on research-based strategies for maintaining and continuing growth in all areas.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
49707306120588|Pathways Charter|6|Pathways conducts an annual survey of all parents. Results consistently indicate a very high level of satisfaction, not only with the overall school program, but also with parents' access to decision making and participation in programs. This survey, and its associated results, are on of the major data sources for establishing our annual LCAP goals, actions and services. A few highlights from this year's survey: 87% are satisfied or highly satisfied with Pathways overall; 85% agree or strongly agree that they have been invited to meetings; 80% agree or strongly agree that the school stays in touch with families and give families options for input; and 90% agree or strongly agree that Pathways is safe.|2019-06-11||Met|2019
36750440112441|Pathways to College K8|6|Students in grades 6, 7, and 8 were surveyed using a local instrument. Key learnings and areas of growth identified include all of the following: more choice in elective class offerings; reduction in bullying; better teachers/teaching; improving student behavior; increasing mutual respect; development of an after school sports program; and a better basketball hoop! In general, students indicated through their responses that their desires for the school environment are in alignment with those of the parents, staff, and administration. In response to results of the student survey, PTC has examined options in hiring part-time personnel in order to increase elective offerings. This is currently in the planning stages. PTC did include in its budget for the 2019/2020 school monies to fund the creation of after school clubs and tutorials. In our efforts to decrease bullying, PTC has continued with year 2 of PBIS implementation incentivizing positive behaviors while extinguishing those that are negative. Administration has also made a concerted effort to deal with bullying issues as promptly as possible and in a way that aligns with PBIS. For example, kindness is rewarded; whereas appropriate consequences are provided when bullying does not stop. Students are given choices to ignore each other or to become friends. Replacement suggestions are offered, and parents of both parties are consulted when necessary to keep the dialogue open. To increase teacher effectiveness, professional development has been designed to meet needs identified in teacher evaluations. Much of what PTC does and continues to do with PBIS is result of observations related to teacher/student interaction. High expectations are maintained but with a focus on the positive. Other professional development offerings this current year include those related to increasing rigor, providing differentiated instruction, cooperative work strategies for student, and strategies related to EL instruction. Again, all of this a result of classroom observations and needs identified by students and parents. An after-school sports program is in the works. PTC hired personnel capable of organizing the program; a budget has been approved; and it is currently going through a board approval process that includes development of a policy and appropriate release forms.  And, yes, PTC did purchase a set of new basketball hoops having increased the budget for P.E. equipment.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
50712170000000|Patterson Joint Unified|6|Through the past three years, the CHKS has been conducted in grades 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11 and among our non-traditional (NT) students in alternative high school settings.  Data reviewed for this summary was pulled from the School Climate Report Card (SCRC) for secondary grades and the Key Indicators report for elementary grades. These reports summarized key climate indicators and provided insight on disaggregated results in key areas of focus such as school connectedness, violence and substance use. Data summarized in the SCRC showed the School Climate Index (a scale of 0-500) was 226 among high school students and 292 among middle school students during the 2016-17 school year.  The most recent data from the 2018-19 school year showed growth in the high school climate to 259 and a drop in the middle school climate to 261.   Data summarized in the elementary CHKS Key Indicators report shows high levels of school connectedness and safety among Patterson elementary students, with some decline over the past three years.  In 2016-17, 75 percent of students reported high levels of school connectedness and three years later in 2018-19 that percentage dropped to 69.  In 2016-17, 79 percent of students felt safe most or all of the time and that percentage dropped to 73 percent in 2018-19. The increase in the school climate index rate among high school students is promising.  However, when reviewing the data by student cohort, we can see that the same students that reported high levels in the school climate index in 2016-17 are now the students reporting high levels in the high school grades.  This chronological movement of high levels of school climate (connectedness and safety) shows the value of teaching and nurturing the inner resilience of students.  However, there is more to school climate than the internal strengths shown by the data among this student cohort.  We also know that the work our schools are doing in PBIS implementation still needs attention and improvement.  Through further investment in this effort, and sustaining high levels in our PBIS implementation fidelity, we can help build inner resilience in all students by setting up school climate with supportive adult relationships, high expectations and meaningful opportunities to contribute. PJUSD will continue to implement PBIS at all schools.  PBIS teams will review behavioral data to develop precise problem statements with action plans for improvement.  Teams will also work with staff to further increase buy-in and provide strategies through PBIS to develop stronger relationships with students.  PBIS teams will continue to feature respect as a key behavioral expectation and will promote that expectation among students and school personnel.  Respect is foundational to feeling safe and feeling safe is foundational to connectedness and belonging.  When implemented with fidelity, PBIS will improve all of these areas of the school environment.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
19647336058267|Paul Revere Charter Middle|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
42767866045918|Peabody Charter|6|Peabody Charter School chose to use the CalSchls Survey System (CSPS) from the Health and Human Development Program with WestEd. The survey was chosen because it is used by other local schools and districts and Peabody sought a way to compare data.  The findings do relate to the LCFF priorities and inform LCAP goals.  This survey was given to one grade level across two grade spans.  PCS surveyed 5th grade in the K-5 grade span and grade 6 in the 6-8 grade span.  Key points shared with the Peabody Board of Directors included:  1. 96% of parents surveyed agree or strongly agree that the school encourages parents to be an active partner with the school in educating their child(ren).  2. 87% of 5th graders and 84% of 6th graders report that they feel connected to Peabody "all" or "most" of the time.  3.     98% of parents report that they are treated with respect by the school. 4.     86% of 5th graders and 83% of 6th graders report that there are caring adults in school "all" or "most" of the time.  5.     90% of parents report that Peabody allows input and welcomes parents' contributions.  6.     95% of 5th graders and 90% of 6th graders report that there are high expectations-adults in school "all" or "most" of the time.  It should also be mentioned that Peabody is the largest elementary school in Santa Barbara, serving a diverse population of students and their families.  This diversity is seen as a strength, and the data shows that the school is actively engaged in utilizing those strengths to improve the school experience of all students.    10% of parents report that they disagree that Peabody provides quality programs for their child's talents, gifts, or special needs.    While we offer a rich variety of visual and performing arts, as well as physical education, Peabody as a school is looking to see how we might improve the experiences of some of our students with regards to students with special needs.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
56725530139592|Peak Prep Pleasant Valley|6|We are in the initial stage of this priority. Since we are a brand new school (opened 9/3/2019) we will be following through the survey in the spring.|2019-10-29|As stated above, we are in the initial stage. We are brand new so we have not developed a local climate survey. We plan on doing our first round of surveys in the spring.|Met|2019
15636280128504|Peak to Peak Mountain Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
12629840000000|Peninsula Union|6|1) Data indicates a high level of parent support of our programs and staff satisfaction. Data also indicated a medium level of students self reporting that they are involved in decision making, with numbers being higher/more engaged at the lower grade levels, and less engaged at the middle school level.   2) Meaning: family involvement strategies that we have been engaging are effective. Student engagement strategies have been effective at the lower grade levels, but less at the middle school level.   3) We will increase strategies to earn and maintain middle school student involvement, such as creating leadership opportunities around campus and conducting more frequent surveys of student preferences.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
29768770000000|Penn Valley Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
49402466051981|Penngrove Elementary|6|Petaluma City Schools has contracted with West Ed to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other school year. The CHKS was last administered in the district during the 2017-2018 school year. The CHKS will be administered again in the 2019-2020 school year. For the 2017-2018 school year, the school climate measures, as indicated by the CHKS results for Petaluma City Schools, were as follows: -School Connectedness: 97% of 5th grade students, 66% of 7th grade students, 51% of 9th grade students, and 46% of 11th grade students indicated that they felt connected to their school. -Feel Safe At School: 86% of 5th-grade students, 78% of 7th grade students, 66% of 9th grade students, and 69% of 11th grade students indicated that they feel safe at school. Specific Penngrove School climate measures, as indicated by the CHKS results:  School Connectedness: 97% of 5th grade students (the only grade level tested) feel connected to their school. 84% feel that teachers and other grown-ups care about them. 92% said that the adults at school feel that the students can do a good job.   Feel Safe At School: 83% of 5th-grade students indicated that they feel safe at school and 84% feel that teachers treat students fairly. 93% of students reported that they are motivated to do their work, even when it is hard.  These results indicate a student population that overall feels connected and supported at school. Teachers and staff discuss ways to make more students feel connected and supported during professional learning opportunities prior to each school year and at various times during the year. Each year Penngrove develops a motto for staff for the year. This year's motto, "Be Present" directly addresses ways to have students feel connected and heard. There are check-ins with staff during the year to address needs as they arise.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
33671990000000|Perris Elementary|6|The Perris Elementary chose to administer the LCAP Student Surveys as it measured goals established in the Local Control Accountability Plan. Student survey reflects that 34.2% of students felt safe at school and 43.% of students felt their teachers and other adults care about them. Updated|2019-10-10||Met|2019
33672070000000|Perris Union High|6|At the end of the 2018/19 school year Perris Union High School (PUHSD) reviewed discipline data and found a marked increase in the use of vaping; in particular the use of “marijuana wax” in vape pens.  In 2017/18 PUHSD had 241 violations for 48900(c)- possession or use of a controlled substance.  In 2018/19 there was an increase to 297 violations.  PUHSD analyzed results on the California Healthy Kids Survey (HKS) and paid close attention to the “Perceived Difficulty in Obtaining Alcohol and Marijuana.”  In that category 42% of 11th grade respondents reported that it was “very easy” to obtain marijuana and 21% reported that it was “fairly easy” to obtain.  Given the recent legalization of marijuana in California this is likely more than a perception; it has actually become easier for our students to obtain access to marjuana.  As a result, in the 2019/20 school year  PUHSD has doubled its budget for drug counseling and intervention.  At each school we now offer two ongoing drug counseling classes per quarter.    When reviewing the Healthy Kids Survey data on school connectedness PUHSD looked at the responses to the question, “I feel safe in my school?”   In the 7th grade 15% responded that they “strongly agree”, 39% responded that they “agree”, 27% responded that they “neither agree or disagree”, 13% responded that they “disagree” and 6% responded that they “strongly disagree.” Responses in the 9th and 11th grade showed similar results with only slight variation.  To increase safety and security PUHSD created a new position and hired a Coordinator of Safety to work with campus supervisors and school staff. In addition, each school has formed a Multi Tiered Systems of Support Committee to focus on the issues of school discipline, school safety, and student connectedness.    To analyze the question of connectedness PUHSD looked at responses to the question “I feel close to people at school?”  In the 7th grade 20% responded that they “strongly agree”, 41 % responded that they “agree”, 24% responded that they “neither agree or disagree”, 9% responded that they “disagree” and 6% responded that they “strongly disagree.”  PUHSD observed that feelings of closeness declined by the 11th grade where only 15% of respondents “strongly agreed.”  As a result, this year PUHSD is very focused on the social emotional needs of our students.  Every teacher in our district will receive three hours of training in “SEAL”- Strengthening Social,Emotional, and Academic Learning.  This training focuses on building capacity for all adults in the area of enhancing student belonging in school.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
43771150137059|Perseverance Preparatory|6|We were not open in the 2018-2019 school year.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
49402460131961|Petaluma Accelerated Charter|6|Petaluma City Schools has contracted with WestEd to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other school year. The CHKS was administered in the 2017-2018 school year. The school climate measures, as indicated by the CHKS results for Petalum Accelerated Charter, were as follows: -School Connectedness: 78% of 7th-grade students in PCS indicated that they felt connected to their school. -Feel Safe At School: 88% of 7th grade students in PCS indicated that they feel safe at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
49402460000000|Petaluma City Elementary/Joint Union High|6|Petaluma City Schools has contracted with West Ed to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other school year. The CHKS was last administered in the district during the 2017-2018 school year and is scheduled to be administered again this school year (2019-2020). For the 2017-2018 school year, the school climate measures, as indicated by the CHKS results for Petaluma City Schools, were as follows: -School Connectedness: 97% of 5th grade students, 66% of 7th grade students, 51% of 9th grade students, and 46% of 11th grade students indicated that they felt connected to their school. -Feel Safe At School: 86% of 5th grade students, 78% of 7th grade students, 66% of 9th grade students, and 69% of 11th grade students indicated that they feel safe at school. We are working on implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) as a framework to improve school climate at several of our schools.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
21102152130102|Phoenix Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
45701690136440|Phoenix Charter Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
01612750000000|Piedmont City Unified|6|Schools in Piedmont delivered the Healthy Kids Survey to students in 5th, 7th, and all grades at PHS and MHS in the spring of 2017.  Finding and analysis were reported to the local School Board on February 13th, 2018.   As reported at the 2/13/2019 School Board meeting, Key Takeaways Elementary: •"School Connectedness" responses were high  •Meaningful participation rates were lower than county and state averages. Secondary: •When analyzing School Connectedness, Caring Adults, and Meaningful participation at school data, percentage of students who agree with the positive statements about each sub-domain increases from 9-12th grade. •Areas for growth include: empowering students to manage their own learning and improving the caring relationships at school.  We would also like for more students to connect with their work, in particular to make them feel they do things to make a difference.    Disaggregate data from the CHKS dashboard did not reveal disproportionality for gender.  In regards to race/ethnicity, some student groups were too small to analyze, especially over time.  A look at Academic Motivation and Caring Adult Relationship results revealed that white students reported the most positive responses, with Asian and Hispanic responses within 6% points. https://calschls.org/reports-data/data-dashboards/secondary-dashboard/  Reducing risk behaviors and promoting positive youth development have been key efforts to improve schools and promote academic success among all students.  Assemblies on consent, social justice, and healthy choices will continue.  The Wellness Center, with its therapists, continues to be a support to students, and new board policy around Suicide Prevention will be put into action this year.    In response to "empowering students to manage their own learning" efforts are underway throughout the district to implement MTSS and Professional Learning Communities.  Action steps identified in the LCAP for this year include: 1) train secondary staff on the four critical questions of professional learning communities and the RtI Framework, 2) have teachers identify essential learning outcomes in English language arts and mathematics, and 3) create multi-tiered systems of support to provide at-risk students with academic, behavioral, and social-emotional interventions. Over half of all teaching staff have attended an outside professional learning opportunity on PLC work so far.  The district professional development day was focused on implementing PLCs and identifying the work for the year.  We believe that this work will clarify the learning outcomes we desire for students, and create structures that will connect students more to their learning with relevance.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
06616140000000|Pierce Joint Unified|6|California Healthy Kids Survey will be administered to students in November 2019. The following results are from the previous administration to students in grades 5, 7 & 11 in the Fall of 2017. This survey is given to students every other year. The results in the areas of school safety and connectedness are as follows: 78% 5th graders on the HKS  feel they are part of the school all or most of the time 75% 7th graders on the HKS agree or strongly agree that they feel they are part of the school 9th graders on the HKS agree or strongly agree that they feel they are part of the school - data unavailable 45% 11th graders on the HKS agree or strongly agree that they feel they are part of the school 79% 5th graders on the HKS feel safe at school all or most of the time 70% 7th graders on the HKS agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school 9th graders on the HKS agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school- data unavailable 71% 11th graders on the HKS agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school|2019-10-17|In terms of connectedness, students' sense of connectedness decreases as they move up to higher grades. As far as feeling safe at school, throughout the district the percentage is in the range of 70-79%. A focus of the district this year is for staff to be trained to understand Social-Emotional Learning, including understanding how trauma affects students' lives. All certificated and classified staff had a district training prior to the start of school. School sites will each be working on strategies to improve climate. Increases in security have been made at district schools as well to work toward students feeling safer at school. Some of these safety measures include: additional security cameras, additional fencing, implementing a visitor check-in system, deploying an electronic notification system to staff in the event of an emergency and the implementation of an online education system that focuses on character education at the elementary school level and alternatives to suspensions at the middle and high school levels. The complete Healthy Kids Survey results were presented to the board at a public meeting in the spring of 2018.|Met|2019
10623720000000|Pine Ridge Elementary|6|Pine Ridge issued a local school climate survey to its Grade 4-5 and Grade 6-8 students in 2018-19. The survey collected data about student perception regarding 1) school safety, and 2) connectedness.   DATA: The data show: 91.5% of Grade 4-5 and 100% of Grade 6-8 students surveyed reported feeling safe at school "all of the time."  The data also show: 100% percent of students Grades 4-5 AND Grades 6-8 reported feeling welcomed at Pine Ridge. Also, 90.5% of Grade 4-5 and 94.2% of Grade 6-8 students reported feeling "a valued part of Pine Ridge."  MEANING: Our student counts are too low to accurately dis-aggregate data for anything except grade brackets which are shown above. The data reveal that Pine Ridge students do feel predominately safe and connected to Pine Ridge. However, students in Grades 4-5 report a smaller sense of safety and connectedness than their Grade 6-8 counterparts. We are pleased to see that ALL students feel welcomed at Pine Ridge.   USE: The staff has discussed the data and its meaning. Of greatest concern is supporting the Grade 4-5 students who share recess and lunch periods with the Grade 6-8 students to make sure they are indeed safe. Further, we discussed how important it is for teachers to call students by name, even outside of class. Teachers discussed inviting students to come see them anytime they needed a safe person on campus to talk to. We believe this will increase students' sense of safety and connectedness to their school. Furthermore, the Board of Trustees decided this year to replace the campus security camera system with a state of the art version to improve safety  campus.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
49708706113492|Piner-Olivet Charter|6|DATA: LCAP Goal 1 is to create a positive, learning-focused environment and culture for all students. POCS  has taken various steps to provide training and professional development in order to improve the school learning environment, including Restorative Practices. The Quaglia My Voice Surveys (students, teachers and parents) indicated that: 65% of students reported that they "feel school is welcoming and friendly" (compared to 65% the previous year); 68% of students feel teachers make an effort to get to know them (compared to 64% the previous year); 44% of students feel "like a valued member of school” (compared to 36% the previous year);" POCS’s Healthy Kids Survey was administered during 2017-2018: 54% of students felt safe at school, 25% felt they have a caring relationship with adult. MEANING: We did not meet our growth targets for our survey results for the 18-19 school year, but we did show some improvement in these areas. USE: As a result of this data we will continue to focus on school culture (LCAP Goal 1) to reduce the number of behavior referrals to the office and support teachers in developing inclusive teaching strategies by increased counseling services and coaching.|2019-10-02|The Piner-Olivet Union School District was significantly impacted by the Northern California wildfires during 2017-18. The Tubbs Fire destroyed over 5,500 structures and Coffey Park (a neighborhood directly across the street from Schaefer School and our district office), was one of the most densely populated areas in Santa Rosa affected by the fire. About 1,500 homes were destroyed in the small neighborhood.|Met|2019
49708700000000|Piner-Olivet Union Elementary|6|DATA: LCAP Goal 1 is to create a positive, learning-focused environment and culture for all students. POUSD has taken various steps to provide training and professional development in order to improve the school learning environment. The Quaglia My Voice Surveys (students, teachers and parents) indicated that: 50% of students in grades 3-5 reported that they "feel important" in their classrooms (compared to 46% the previous year); 24% of students in grade 6 reported that they are "a valued member of" their school community (compared to 52% the previous year); 62% of students in grades 3-5 reported that they are "comfortable asking questions in class (compared to 48% the previous year);" and 48% of students in grade 6 reported that they are "comfortable asking questions in class" (compared to 70% the previous year). Jack London’s Healthy Kids Survey was administered during 2017-2018: 69% of students felt safe at school, 46% felt they have a caring relationship with adults, and 25% of students indicated a level of school connectedness.    MEANING: We did not meet our growth targets for our survey results for the 18-19 school year, however we did show improvement in some areas, while there was a decrease in other areas.    USE: As a result of this data we will continue to focus on school culture (LCAP Goal 1) to reduce the number of behavior referrals to the office and support teachers in developing inclusive teaching strategies by increased counseling services and coaching.|2019-10-02|The Piner-Olivet Union School District was significantly impacted by the Northern California wildfires during 2017-18. The Tubbs Fire destroyed over 5,500 structures and Coffey Park (a neighborhood directly across the street from Schaefer School and our district office), was one of the most densely populated areas in Santa Rosa affected by the fire. About 1,500 homes were destroyed in the small neighborhood.|Met|2019
27660680134254|Pinnacle Academy Charter - Independent Study|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
16639906010557|Pioneer Elementary|6|Pioneer District administered a student survey addressing school connectedness and a sense of safety in the spring of 2019. The survey was administered to students in grades 4-8 with 651 students participating in the survey.   The survey addresses school connectedness through questions that ask if the student has an adult they can trust at school; if they look forward to coming to school; support they receive or can expect to receive from school staff with issues of problems they may face; and if the teacher talks to the student about areas of strength and improvement. Students in 4th and 5th grade who participated in the survey attend two elementary school sites in the district. In grades 4 and 5, 90.9% of students expressed positive responses in the area of connectedness. The 6th through 8th grade students attend the district middle school. In 6th through 8th grade, students gave positive responses 76.6% of the time in regards to a sense of connectedness. This is an increase of approximately 3% over the previous year’s results.   The survey also sought information regarding the sense of safety students have through questions relating to knowing the school rules for behavior, whether or not they felt that inappropriate behavior was addressed and had consequences; if they felt safe while at school; and if the school was in a good, clean condition. In grades 4 and 5, 97.7% of students gave positive responses to questions regarding a sense of safety while at school. In 6th through 8th grade, 88.6% of students gave positive responses.  Furthermore, the District surveyed parents and families about school climate and safety as part of its annual parent survey given in the spring of 2019. Overall, 98.5% of parents and families responded positively to their sense of connectedness to the schools, and 99.6% responded positively that they felt their children are safe while at school, an almost perfect rating.  Pioneer District is in its second year of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). MTSS is an integrated, comprehensive framework for all district and school programs including academic instruction, behavior instruction, and social emotional learning. The expected benefits of MTSS are improved leverage of resources and services for all students; strategies that effectively support student success; and evidence-based, data-driven, district-wide, and school-wide supports for academic, behavior, and social-emotional learning (SEL). Participation in MTSS last year resulted in the addition of SEL instruction; in depth self-assessment of site and district level programs, policies, and needs to support students and staff; and the plans to implement an SEL universal screener for students.  Additionally, the district uses Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) model to improve school climate for all students. These programs are supported by action items in the Local Control and Accountability Plan and professional development for staff.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
16639906110233|Pioneer Middle|6|Pioneer District administered a student survey addressing school connectedness and a sense of safety in the spring of 2019. The survey was administered to students in grades 4-8 with 651 students participating in the survey.   The survey addresses school connectedness through questions that ask if the student has an adult they can trust at school; if they look forward to coming to school; support they receive or can expect to receive from school staff with issues of problems they may face; and if the teacher talks to the student about areas of strength and improvement. Students in 4th and 5th grade who participated in the survey attend two elementary school sites in the district. In grades 4 and 5, 90.9% of students expressed positive responses in the area of connectedness. The 6th through 8th grade students attend the district middle school. In 6th through 8th grade, students gave positive responses 76.6% of the time in regards to a sense of connectedness. This is an increase of approximately 3% over the previous year’s results.   The survey also sought information regarding the sense of safety students have through questions relating to knowing the school rules for behavior, whether or not they felt that inappropriate behavior was addressed and had consequences; if they felt safe while at school; and if the school was in a good, clean condition. In grades 4 and 5, 97.7% of students gave positive responses to questions regarding a sense of safety while at school. In 6th through 8th grade, 88.6% of students gave positive responses.  Furthermore, the District surveyed parents and families about school climate and safety as part of its annual parent survey given in the spring of 2019. Overall, 98.5% of parents and families responded positively to their sense of connectedness to the schools, and 99.6% responded positively that they felt their children are safe while at school, an almost perfect rating.  Pioneer District is in its second year of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). MTSS is an integrated, comprehensive framework for all district and school programs including academic instruction, behavior instruction, and social emotional learning. The expected benefits of MTSS are improved leverage of resources and services for all students; strategies that effectively support student success; and evidence-based, data-driven, district-wide, and school-wide supports for academic, behavior, and social-emotional learning (SEL). Participation in MTSS last year resulted in the addition of SEL instruction; in depth self-assessment of site and district level programs, policies, and needs to support students and staff; and the plans to implement an SEL universal screener for students.  Additionally, the district uses Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) model to improve school climate for all students. These programs are supported by action items in the Local Control and Accountability Plan and professional development for staff.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
20102072030229|Pioneer Technical Center|6|The LEA administered a school climate survey. The survey captured a valid measure of student perception of school safety and connectedness. A total of 191 students, up from 141, completed the on-line survey at Pioneer Technical Center, Pioneer Technical Center Independent Study and Pioneer Technical Center Chowchilla. The current school population between both PTC Madera and PTC Chowchilla is 173 male (49%) and 180 (51%) female students. Of the 353 students, 54 (15%) are classified as English Language Learners. Of our students surveyed, 82.7% reported feeling safe at school or they do not feel unsafe at school. In addition, 90% of students reported feeling respected by staff and teachers, while 80.6% stated they were encouraged to participate in school events. Moreover, 88% of students expressed they felt the school considers their individual needs and 76% of students felt teachers set high standards for them and provided sufficient feedback on their achievement. Specific items of particular relevance to school safety relevance include factors outside of the school setting, which include emotional need and support, substance and alcohol abuse, gang involvement and unstable family environment. Analysis of the data demonstrates that students will continue to benefit from counseling and mentoring services from LEA staff and collaborative agencies. Areas of student need include substance and alcohol abuse counseling; gang intervention training; stopping acts of violence and criminal activity; decreasing truancy from school; and social / emotional wellness education. The LEA will continue to partner with collaborative agencies and utilize appropriate staff to address areas of need. In addition, the limited parent involvement / participation is comparable to the perception students have of their parents’ involvement in their schooling. The LEA plans to continue to collaborate and focus on increasing parent participation through outreach services, Open House, and other efforts to facilitate increased parent involvement.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
04733790000000|Pioneer Union Elementary|6|The results from our LCAP Parent Survey in May 2019 showed that  94% of our families feel we are doing a good job, their children feel safe at school, the staff care about their children and we work diligently to communicate and involve parents in all aspects of the school. The areas they would like to see an upgraded or continues focus were school safety, performing arts, anit-bullying programs. and instructional materials. With those goals in mind and using our CSI and VAPA grants we bought new curriculum for English Language Arts, supplement our Math materials and ordered a new Science curriculum. In addition classrooms were upgraded with SMART boards for teaching and IPADS for student use. BCOE will be assisting our school in continuous progress monitoring for those students with learning gaps and/or students that are below grade level. Last year we had a 40% turnover in our student population so we are focusing on supporting students as quickly and frequently as we can based on their current data.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
09619450000000|Pioneer Union Elementary|6|2019-20 Student Surveys will be conducted in November 2019. 2019-20 Parent Surveys will be conducted in November 2019. 2019-20 Staff Surveys will be conducted in January 2020. Student Surveys were conducted in November 2018: Student surveys were conducted using California Healthy Kids Survey. Fifth, Sixth, seventh and eighth grade students participated in the survey in November, 2018. Results of the survey were reviewed during LCAP study sessions, at School Site Council and STEER Pioneer Meetings and during Board meetings. The results were also posted on our District website. Student Priorities are: 1. Increase school connectedness and caring adult relationships at MCM 2. Engage students in meaningful participation at MCM 3. Address harassment or bullying 4. More games, activities and fun|2019-10-10||Met|2019
16639900000000|Pioneer Union Elementary|6|Pioneer District administered a student survey addressing school connectedness and a sense of safety in the spring of 2019. The survey was administered to students in grades 4-8 with 651 students participating in the survey.   The survey addresses school connectedness through questions that ask if the student has an adult they can trust at school; if they look forward to coming to school; support they receive or can expect to receive from school staff with issues of problems they may face; and if the teacher talks to the student about areas of strength and improvement. Students in 4th and 5th grade who participated in the survey attend two elementary school sites in the district. In grades 4 and 5, 90.9% of students expressed positive responses in the area of connectedness. The 6th through 8th grade students attend the district middle school. In 6th through 8th grade, students gave positive responses 76.6% of the time in regards to a sense of connectedness. This is an increase of approximately 3% over the previous year’s results.   The survey also sought information regarding the sense of safety students have through questions relating to knowing the school rules for behavior, whether or not they felt that inappropriate behavior was addressed and had consequences; if they felt safe while at school; and if the school was in a good, clean condition. In grades 4 and 5, 97.7% of students gave positive responses to questions regarding a sense of safety while at school. In 6th through 8th grade, 88.6% of students gave positive responses.  Furthermore, the District surveyed parents and families about school climate and safety as part of its annual parent survey given in the spring of 2019. Overall, 98.5% of parents and families responded positively to their sense of connectedness to the schools, and 99.6% responded positively that they felt their children are safe while at school, an almost perfect rating.  Pioneer District is in its second year of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). MTSS is an integrated, comprehensive framework for all district and school programs including academic instruction, behavior instruction, and social emotional learning. The expected benefits of MTSS are improved leverage of resources and services for all students; strategies that effectively support student success; and evidence-based, data-driven, district-wide, and school-wide supports for academic, behavior, and social-emotional learning (SEL). Participation in MTSS last year resulted in the addition of SEL instruction; in depth self-assessment of site and district level programs, policies, and needs to support students and staff; and the plans to implement an SEL universal screener for students.  Additionally, the district uses Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) model to improve school climate for all students. These programs are supported by action items in the Local Control and Accountability Plan and professional development for staff.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
39686760111336|Pittman Charter|6|Data analyzed included the 2018-2019 Cal-SCHLS (by the CDE inclusive of students-CHKS - administered to identified grade levels, and staff-CSCS) and the 2018-2019 end of the year PLUS (Peer Leaders Uniting Students) climate surveys (administered to all 4th-12th grade students by grade span). Although different scales are used on the Cal-SCHLS and PLUS surveys to measure student (staff) perceptions, comparison of trends across similar constructs is reported. Overall, elementary and middle school students reported higher levels of school connectedness and safety than high school students, and staff reported lower perceptions than students across both measures. School connectedness was measured through a series of questions about students’ experience with caring adults and opportunities for participation (CHKS) and as an indicator of being “part of the school” (PLUS). About 45% of students reported high levels of school connectedness (CHKS) and more than 60% felt part of the school (PLUS) across each grade span. Additionally, more than 71% of students reported there was at least one adult who cared about them (PLUS), and between 54% through 60% of students reported high levels of caring adult relationships (CHKS). Elementary staff perceived that a higher percentage of adults really cared about students and a higher percentage of elementary staff felt school is a safe place for students than reported by staff at high schools in both areas. Students’ perception of school safety was higher than that of staff. Over 60% of students felt safe (PLUS), and about half of the students felt very safe or safe at school (CHKS). Disaggregation of the PLUS data indicate that across all race/ethnicity, elementary students’ perception of school were more positive than middle and high school students. This trend was evident in both school connectedness (feeling part of the school, knowing a caring adult at school) and school safety. No significant difference was observed across race/ethnicity regarding school connectedness and safety. However, continuous monitoring of disaggregated data may highlight trends that would benefit from targeted outreach and implementation of actions that are culturally relevant to ensure students feel supported at school. Our focus for this year and the foreseeable future, is to find other ways to reach students and make them aware that there are multiple adults on campus they can reach-out to if they need help. Based on survey results a number of students still feel disconnected from the school.  In addition, we are in the processes of scheduling two anti-bullying assemblies at the request of our School Site Council.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
07617880000000|Pittsburg Unified|6|PUSD uses the CA Healthy Kids Survey items as one set of indicators of School Climate as well as reviewing other indicators (e.g., suspensions, referrals, Early Warning behavioral and academic indicators, social-emotional learning indicators, as well as celebrations and positive cultural activities/events/reports) in establishing key priorities and LCAP/LCFF/DIstrict/Site goals and goals in site's SIngle Plans for Student Achievement.   The 2018-19 CA Healthy Kids Survey was administered at grades 5, 7, 9, 11 and at our Alternative/Continuation High School, as well as being administered to Parents and Staff. Below we provide data over two years of surveys: 2018-19/2018-17.    Highlights of Safety and School Connectedness indicators include: Students who report feeling safe All or Most of the Time (5th grade) or who report feeling Safe or Very Safe (secondary), by grade level: 5th (70%/68%); 7th (44%/53%); 9th (51%/46%); 11th (40%/41%); Continuation HS (71%/66%). Students who show positive ratings of School Connectedness (i.e., the percent who Always or Most of the Time or who Agree or Strongly Agree about being happy at school, part of school, safe at school, close to people at school and treated fairly at school): 5th (66%/64%), 7th (43%/49%), 9th (48%/43%), 11th (39%/42%), Alternative/Continuation HS (56%/54%).   We can see that survey ratings around Safety and School Connectedness are lower at JHS and HS levels.  We are interested in disaggregating data more in this regard.  We have ordered high level disaggregated reports for JHS and HS and will review those with stakeholders.  In 2019-20 we are requesting the raw data from the Healthy Kids surveys to be able to do more detailed, disaggregated analyses of data as well.    School Safety in particular has been a strong focus, with a newly hired Supervisor of School Site Safety and Emergency Preparedness in 2018-19.  Extensive new work in this area has included district-wide A.L.I.C.E. training and work with sites on rolling out Safety and Emergency Preparedness information and strategies.  We also look at the degree to which our schools support Social-Emotional Learning, in part through students own perceptions of things like their self-efficacy, grit, etc. as measured by a Panorama Survey given across all sites and grade levels (in 2019-20 we are shifting to use of the Social-Emotional Learning Module of the Healthy Kids Survey). Results of both of these surveys are reported as part of our LCAP, and reviewed in community meetings.  Programs of support and continuous improvement include: Having a central office Coordinator of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) Deploying Behaviorists and Counselors across school sites. A focus on the 3 Be's, with site training and support: Be Safe, Be Respectful, Be Responsible. Restorative Practices/Restorative Justice Soul Shoppe: support for social-emotional learning and anti-bullying across elementary. Coordination of Services Teams (COST) across sites.|2019-06-05|In addition to our Board LCAP presentation in June 2019, we also reviewed a range of Healthy Kids data and our Local Indicators on Oct 23, 2019.  In the future, both presentations will occur together toward the end of each school year.|Met|2019
49708390138065|Pivot Charter School - North Bay|6|A local climate survey of Pivot Charter School students and parents was conducted. Results were generally positive, with 85.5% of students indicating they felt Pivot was a welcoming and friendly place, 69.9% of students indicating that their teachers were sensitive to their needs, and 66.7% of students indicating that they felt comfortable asking questions at the resource center. Many students also indicated that they think participating in the supplemental program time and/or workshops at the resource center was beneficial to their academic progress, and that they feel Pivot is preparing them well for college or a career.  Parent surveys also addressed school safety, and a clear majority of parents, 88.2%, indicating that they felt their students were safe at the resource center.  An area indicated as a need for improvement was in the area of preparation for college or careers after high school and more non-academic activities. Many students commented that they want to see more clubs or social events at the resource center. Others requested more opportunity for partnerships with career preparation organizations.|2019-06-08||Met|2019
37737910138222|Pivot Charter School - San Diego II|6|A local climate survey of Pivot Charter School students and parents was conducted. Results were generally positive, with 78.4% of students indicating they felt Pivot was a welcoming and friendly place, 83.0% of students indicating that their teachers were sensitive to their needs, and 76.9% of students indicating that they felt comfortable asking questions at the resource center. Many students also indicated that they think participating in the supplemental program time and/or workshops at the resource center was beneficial to their academic progress, and that they feel Pivot is preparing them well for college or a career.  Parent surveys also addressed school safety, and a clear majority of parents, 91.6%, indicating that they felt their students were safe at the resource center.  An area indicated as a need for improvement was in the area of preparation for college or careers after high school and more non-academic activities. Many students commented that they want to see more clubs or social events at the resource center. Others requested more opportunity for partnerships with career preparation organizations.|2019-06-08||Met|2019
04614240137828|Pivot Charter School North Valley II|6|A local climate survey of Pivot Charter School students and parents was conducted. Results were generally positive, with 96.1% of students indicating they felt Pivot was a welcoming and friendly place, 86.6% of students indicating that their teachers were sensitive to their needs, and 88.6% of students indicating that they felt comfortable asking questions at the resource center. Many students also indicated that they think participating in the supplemental program time and/or workshops at the resource center was beneficial to their academic progress, and that they feel Pivot is preparing them well for college or a career.  Parent surveys also addressed school safety, and a clear majority of parents, 100%, indicating that they felt their students were safe at the resource center.  An area indicated as a need for improvement was in the area of preparation for college or careers after high school and more non-academic activities. Many students commented that they want to see more clubs or social events at the resource center. Others requested more opportunity for partnerships with career preparation organizations.|2019-06-08||Met|2019
33103300137836|Pivot Charter School Riverside|6|A local climate survey of Pivot Charter School students and parents was conducted. Results were generally positive, with 94.2% of students indicating they felt Pivot was a welcoming and friendly place, 78.9% of students indicating that their teachers were sensitive to their needs, and 77.8% of students indicating that they felt comfortable asking questions at the resource center. Many students also indicated that they think participating in the supplemental program time and/or workshops at the resource center was beneficial to their academic progress, and that they feel Pivot is preparing them well for college or a career.  Parent surveys also addressed school safety, and a clear majority of parents, 93.4%, indicating that they felt their students were safe at the resource center.  An area indicated as a need for improvement was in the area of preparation for college or careers after high school and more non-academic activities. Many students commented that they want to see more clubs or social events at the resource center. Others requested more opportunity for partnerships with career preparation organizations.|2019-06-08||Met|2019
49708390120584|Pivot Online Charter - North Bay|6||||Not Met|2019
54720410000000|Pixley Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is given every year to PUSD's 5th and 7th grade students.  The summary of the 2018-2019 survey results reveal the following results: 1) Pixley Elementary School is right at the state average in most areas.  2) The Elementary school is below the state average for low violence 3) Analyzing the three year results shows that in all areas Pixley Elementary is within a 5 percent variance each year 4) Pixley Middle School's results show a three year trend of increased school connectedness, adult caring relationships, and high expectations 5) Academic motivation was 83% two years in a row 6) Meaningful participation has decreased over time.  The positive trends can be attributed to the recent LCAP expenditures in school climate and safety (i.e. full time School Resource Officer, Intervention Resource Classroom).  Reflecting on the results leads us to focus on Universal Design for Learning (UDL) to improve meaningful participation at both sites.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
30666470000000|Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified|6|PYLUSD administered a comprehensive survey to engage stakeholders and seek  perspectives on the district’s goals: (1) Student Achievement, (2) Effective Instruction and Leadership, (3) Engaged Community, (4) Safe and Respectful Environment, and (5) Optimized Resources.  In partnership with Hanover Research and Bell Educational Solutions, comparative data from 2017, 2018, and 2019 was analyzed to provide site and district administrators with pertinent feedback in order to determine effective practices and implement improvement efforts.  Specific survey questions were aligned in 2017 to measure student perceptions of safety and connectedness to school as required by the state of California for this Local Indicator.   The participation of students in 2019 included 3,151 third and fifth graders, 1,819 eighth grade students, and 1,855 tenth grade respondents for a total of 7,825 students for these specific grade levels.  The data was disaggregated by grade span and results indicated the following: Most students “Feel safe at school” – 90% (3rd and 5th grade) - This statistic remained static from the previous year, 79% (8th grade) - this was an increase of 2% from 2018, and 80% (10th grade) - which is the same percentage as in 2018.   Three other questions from the annual survey solicited information regarding student connectedness.  The first question asked students if “They know about the opportunities to be involved in school activities, events, and programs.”  Data from this survey question showed declines at all grade spans, with 90% of the 3rd and 5th grade participants agreeing with this statement (a decline of 1% from the previous year).  At the 8th grade level, 74% (-12% from 2018) and 85% (-1% from 2018) of the 10th grade population responded positively with this survey prompt.  The statement “I feel like I belong at this school”  showed that 3rd/5th grade level remained static at 88%.  There was a decrease at 8th grade, moving from an agreement of 74% in 2018 to 71% in 2019.  Tenth graders responded less positively as well and the data declined from 70% to 68%.  The final survey component aligning with school connectedness asked respondents to consider the extent to which, “Teachers care about what I think.”  School climate results to this survey prompt experienced minor decreases across all grade spans from the previous year.  The following are statistics regarding the percentage of students that “Completely Agreed” or “Somewhat Agreed:” 88% of 3rd and 5th grade students (a decline of -1%), 67% of 8th graders (a decline of -1%), and 66% of the 10th grade population (a decline of -5%).|2019-10-08||Met|2019
31750850137927|Placer Academy Charter|6|The goal for students to continue to demonstrate strong resilience in making appropriate decisions is a constant and active goal for the school.  During our annual survey, 91% of our students felt the school was an emotionally safe place. However, the staff survey showed that students were having a more difficult time managing their emotions effectively.  This discrepancy showed PAC that there was a social-emotional need that we needed to support.  To help close the gap between desired results and feedback, there has been an emphasis put on social-emotional learning. The school has implemented a school-wide SEL curriculum and devoted the first block of the morning to delivering this instruction.  Additionally, PAC has implemented lunch bunch groups, rest and reset corners, and an emotions check-in procedure.  We continue to monitor the areas of belonging, bullying, safety, and emotional regulation.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
31103140000000|Placer County Office of Education|6|The results from the latest California Healthy Kids Survey administered to students enrolled in the Placer County Court and Community School revealed several meaningful data points.   Ninety-seven percent (97%) of students report feeling very safe, safe or neither safe or unsafe at school. Almost three out of four (72%) students believe teachers treat them fairly.  Eighty-eight percent (88%) of students believe there is a teacher or some other adult who always wants them to do their best. Ensuring our students feel supported is a cornerstone of establishing strong school culture.   23% of students report "strongly agreeing" with the following statements related to Academic Motivation:  • I try hard to make sure that I am good at my schoolwork. • I try hard at school because I am interested in my work. • I work hard to try to understand new things at school. • I am always trying to do better in my schoolwork.  There was no increase or decrease in students reporting that they "strongly agree" with statements related the Academic Motivation section of the CHKS. An additional 38% of students reported they "agree" with these statements, which results in a total of 61% of all students strongly agreeing or agreeing that they are academically motivated at school. County-wide results indicate that 28% of all 7th-11th graders enrolled in non-traditional settings responded “strongly agree” to the same questions.   One challenge the survey results revealed is that 58% of our students indicated they are not involved in deciding class activities or rules and another 15% reported limited involvement in decision making. Giving students more "voice and choice" continues to be an area of growth. Implementing Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and allowing students additional opportunities for project-based learning activities are two actions that have supported growth in this area.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
31103140126904|Placer County Pathways Charter|6|The results from the latest California Healthy Kids Survey administered with students enrolled in the Placer County Pathways Charter School revealed several meaningful data points.   Eighty nine percent (89%) of students report feeling very safe, safe or neither safe or unsafe at school. Almost three out of four (72%) students believe teachers treat them fairly.  Eighty three percent (83%) of students believe there is a teacher or some other adult who always wants them to do their best. Ensuring our students feel supported is a cornerstone of establishing strong school culture.   Sixty five percent (65%) of students agree or strongly agree with statements associated with Academic Motivation. This is a 3% increase over last year. More importantly, there was a significant positive shift in the percentage of students who strongly agree. In 2017-18, 22% strongly agreed while in 2018-19, this increased to 33% of students; an 11 point increase. County-wide data results demonstrate that 28% of all 7th-11th graders in non-traditional settings responded “strongly agree” to the same questions.    One challenge the survey results revealed is that 35% of our students indicated they are not involved in deciding class activities or rules and another 32% reported limited involvement in decision making. Giving students more "voice and choice" continues to be an area of growth. Implementing Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and allowing students additional opportunities for project-based learning activities are two actions that have supported growth in this area.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
31668860000000|Placer Hills Union Elementary|6|Student survey results on the CA Healthy Kid Survey show that they feel they are given opportunities to decisions about their education and reflect a positive school connection. The Buddy program between sites has continued where student with success. Weimar Hills School has maintained a zero rate of dropouts in the Middle School years.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
31668940000000|Placer Union High|6|The Placer Union High School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all 9th & 10th grade students in the Fall of 2018.  The survey was administered via email and the district received over 1,600 responses.  The survey measured student perceptions of school performance, supports and engagements, along with perceptions of safety, alcohol and drug use, and mental and emotional health.  Each site analyzed their respective results noting both areas of strength and concern.  Each of the individual sites presented their findings to the governing board along with their initial plans for addressing some of the issues.    Although each site had different results, the key findings were very similar.  The strengths included that each site had a significant majority of students who feel safe at school, believe adults in the school care about them, and feel connected to the school.  The areas of concern included increasing amounts of chronic sadness,  suicidal thoughts and depression, and issues of bullying.  Moreover, the number of students who have reported use of drugs and alcohol are still high but some areas, such as alcohol, have decreased, while others have remained steady.  After the presentation of findings to the board, the district instructed each site to create a SMART goal centered around social and emotional health.  Also included in this process was the development of a plan to help reach these goals.  The individual sites have created Coordination of Services Team (CoST) to discuss individual student needs and providing support.  They have created different programs that promote student involvement and connectedness.  All of the sites had community outreach nights discussing many of these issues. As a district, restorative practices are being implemented and staff are being trained.    Through the CHKS survey, identified issues and concerns are followed up with our student board members and in our Student Voice meetings.  Students are included in our development and implementation of student social/emotional health initiatives.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
09619520000000|Placerville Union Elementary|6|PUSD annually surveys students [CA Healthy Kids Survey] grades 5-8). See PUSD web page for Student survey results as reported to the PUSD Governing Board on June 5, 2019.  The HKS is shared through the School Site Council, Health Education Advisory Committee as well as all teaching staff.  Goals are written concerning school climate based on the information pulled from the CHKS.  A Board work session is scheduled for November 20, 2019 to look further into the data.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
24658130000000|Plainsburg Union Elementary|6|PUESD gives all students in 3rd through 8th grade a climate survey specifically focusing on the areas of safety and connectedness to school. PUESD strives for all students to feel safe and happy to be at school on a daily basis. As a result of this survey, 83% of all students in the grades surveyed felt happy and safe while at school. This information from the surveys allows us to dive deeper and find what barriers would keep us from having 100% on our surveys. As a small we strive to do better so we have created focus groups that are peer led to give students an environment that they can feel comfortable in to express any concerns, ideas, or even wants that they may have for us as a whole school.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
19647336018725|Plainview Academic Charter Academy|6|Plainview participates in Los Angeles Unified School District's yearly School Experience Survey.  This survey is provided to the parents in paper format, as well as on-line.  This survey is taken on-line, by students in third through fifth grade.  The survey is taken by all staff members.  The results of the survey are available on the Los Angeles Unified School District site and a link to the results is posted on Plainview's school website.  The survey is reviewed, in detail, with all stake holders.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
24658210000000|Planada Elementary|6|Two questions that were of particular importance to the LEA in evaluating priority 6 were: 1. The questions relating to school connectedness. These questions differ slightly at each grade level, but they measure students' sense of connectedness to the school. 64.7% of students say they feel connected with their school.  2. The questions relating to school safety. These questions measure whether students feel safe at school. 71.9% of students say they feel safe at school.  The LEA also used an overall CHKS Key Indicator Index which takes all the key indicators and creates and index between 0 and 100, 100 being perfect school safety as measured by the CHKS survey. The indecees for grades were respectively, with an overall average index for the LEA.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
11626380000000|Plaza Elementary|6|Overall ,students reported on the 2017 CHKS that they feel happy and safe at school.  Although we are a small, rural K-8 district, there were surprising reports of exposure to marijuana and alcohol use off campus.  Also, each year the district administers a school climate survey to parents. The overwhelming majority reported that they are happy with how the District educates their children, minimizes bullying and misbehavior, and provides a safe, welcoming environment.  One are of interest was internet use and monitoring for safe behavior. One area of growth is educating students and parents on internet safety in order to be digitally responsible citizens.  The District solicited assistance from the County Sheriff's Department to give a social media and cyber bullying presentation to our 5th-8th graders. They will offer a parent version late.r|2019-10-17||Met|2019
51714310000000|Pleasant Grove Joint Union|6|A local climate survey was given to students in grades third through eighth that provided a valid measure of school safety and connectedness. The results of this survey were shared at the March 4, 2019 staff meeting, March 12, April 9, and May 14, 2019 Pleasant Grove JUSD School Board meetings, and also the April 25, 2019 LCAP Advisory/Site Council meeting.  Findings from this survey indicated that 93.2% of students felt safe at Pleasant Grove School. In addition, 91.2% of students feel that bullying is not a problem at the school while 8.8% feel it is a problem. These results indicated that the school’s discipline program and Nurtured Heart have created a safe environment, however more education and structure need to be implemented regarding bullying. Structures to be implemented during the 2019/20 school year are more professional development in Nurtured Heart and the review and adoption of an updated anti-bullying program.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
29663730000000|Pleasant Ridge Union Elementary|6|Pleasant Ridge Union School District engaged in the California Healthy Kids Survey in 2018-19 to align with our LCAP/LCFF work. In 2018-19 PRUSD also administered a district-wide survey that measured parent satisfaction in the areas of academics, culture, and safety. Among the items in this student survey is an item on School Safety measured via several questions regarding student perceptions of disrespect on their campus, physical fights, bullying, worrying about violence, getting help from adults and fair treatment by adults.   The School Climate Report indicated that it was the lowest in a five-year span report by 7th-grade students.  The average responses of 7th-grade students reported that students were more engaged at school with fewer unsafe acts that took place. Conversely, the overall School Climate Index continues to decrease and significantly. Unfortunately, we are not seeing the same responses from parents with their responses from a parent satisfaction survey. Pleasant Ridge Union School District will take a deeper dive into the data to see what should be addressed as two of the subscale have an inverse outcome and do not speak highly of a positive culture.   Pleasant Ridge Union School District also administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to elementary students and the results were very positive in all categories. Elementary students felt very safe, supported and could trust the adults with their learning and safety.  The Elementary California Healthy Kids Survey was much in alignment with the parent satisfaction survey.  When evaluating the data, more of the responses from parents came from elementary parents.   Key district initiatives discussed at Board meetings include implementation of Opportunity Centers; Behavioral, Socio-Emotional Learning, and Intervention; Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS); and the continuous development of the Attendance, Truancy and Behavior Specialists. All of these are intended to positively influence school climate and improve safety and well being on PRUSD campuses.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
56725530000000|Pleasant Valley|6|The California Healthy Kids survey was administered to 5th and 7th grade students in spring of 2018.  This survey is administered biannually with the next scheduled administration in the spring of 2020. Results from the spring 2018 administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey demonstrated the following:  • 75% of 5th grade students reported being happy to be at their schools all or most of the time.  • 50% of 5th graders reported feeling close to people at school all or most of the time • 74% of 5th graders felt like they are part of the school all or most of the time • 85% of 5th graders felt like they are safe at school all or most of the time.  The 7th grade data revealed the following information:  • 73% of 7th graders agree or strongly agree that they felt close to people at their school • 67% of 7th graders agree or strongly agree that they are happy to be at their school • 58% of 7th graders agree or strongly agree that they felt they are part of the school • 69% of 7th grade students felt they are safe at school.  Upon further analysis, 7th grade student safety data was further disaggregated based on additional question probes:  93% felt safe in classrooms; 76% felt safe at lunch; 72% felt safe in bathrooms; 89% felt safe during passing periods; and 80% felt safe in locker rooms. Additionally, on the 2018-2019 LCAP survey, 95% of parents responded that their students felt safe at school.   The data demonstrate the need for students to have greater opportunities to engage on campus so that they feel they are part of the school campus. Through the LCAP, funds were designated to sites to develop additional opportunities for students to engage in clubs, sports, competitions, and other engagement activities. All campuses are utilizing social-emotional learning curriculum to support positive student interactions.  All campuses have access to school counselor support. Site leaders were recently trained in the use of restorative practices such as community circles.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
40687910000000|Pleasant Valley Joint Union Elementary|6|The 2019 LCAP Stakeholder Parent/Staff survey was used to gather the data. Fourteen individual completed the survey School maintains a positive school climate (students feel safe): 93%  All respondent agreed or strongly agreed with this question with the exception of one parent who responded: "I do not know".  Students look forward to attending school each day: 86% All respondents agreed or agreed strongly with this question with the exception of two parents who responded: "I do not know." Students are achieving in academics: 100% School is preparing students for future college and career paths: 79% All respondents agreed or agreed strongly with this question with the exception of one parent who felt that to improve the education school should be "more fun". Two respondents said, "I do not know." School facilities are clean and in good repair: 100% School encourages parent involvement and participation: 93% All respondents agreed or agreed strongly with this question with the exception of one parent who responded: "I do not know."  With the exception of the one negative comment, all respondents answered agree or strongly agree with all of the above questions. The district needs to make sure that those parents who responded "I don't know" to some of the questions are able to have answers to their questions. This will require the district/school to be better about communicating what is happening at the school.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
54720580000000|Pleasant View Elementary|6|Those of us in the education community know that school climate plays a critical role in helping students succeed in school. Parents, families, and other caring adults provide the primary educational environment for children early in life and can reinforce classroom learning throughout the school years. Pleasant View Elementary School District has chosen the following as our local measures from our annual school climate student survey as well as our direct services provided to students by the school psychologist. We felt that our measures best represent perceptions that our students have about the atmosphere and expectations staff have created for them. This survey is given to all students 2nd-8th grade annually and reported to the Local Governing School Board. These measures will be looked at annually and included in our local LCAP actions and services or used in the needs assessment of the district when it comes to planning. Parent/Guardian Input Measure: Student School Climate Survey (Combined Results 2nd-8th) Target is 90% or greater. • 92% of students reported having felt close to someone at school. That compares to 93% from last year. • 97% of students reported believing that teachers and other grown-ups at school believe they can do a good job. That compares to 96% from last year. • 96% of students reported that teachers and other grown-ups care about them. That compares to 93% from last year. • 93% of students feel like they are a part of this school. That compares to 85% from last year. • 95% of students report that they are motivated to learn. That compares to 90% from last year. • 96% of students reported feeling safe at school. That compares to 89% a year ago. In addition, Pleasant View has selected the following metric to show direct mental health services provided to our students by the school psychologist. Our school psychologist reported providing direct services to 31% of our students. That compares to 25% last year. Target is greater than 15%. The school also believes Self Efficacy is extremely important to student long term outcomes. The school gave an in sel efficacy survey of all 4th-8th graders in 2018-2019 (scores 1-4 range). Our students areas of strength were Academic Achievement 3.30 and Social 3.21. Our students two weakest areas were in Self Regulated Learning 2.72 and Enlisting Social Resources 2.80. The district will use this data to focus its work on building communities in the classrooms where students will feel connected and learn how to better access the resources they need to be successful. The implementation of the (LCFF) has placed a renewed emphasis on students and educators working together as partners. The measures have been established in our LCAP in Goal 6 and are present in our actions and services within this goal. Pleasant View recognizes the ongoing need to continually reflect and make changes to how we build relationships and engage our students in taking ownership of their learning.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
01751010000000|Pleasanton Unified|6|The 2017-2018 CHKS show several patterns of behavior for Elementary and Secondary students. Elem: School Engagement and Supports reported as ‘all the time’ 48% of students feel connected to school, 62% report academic motivation, 52% experience caring adult relationships at school, 52% have high expectations for engagement, 16% engage in meaningful participation. School Safety, 90% of fifth graders feel safe at school. Less than forty percent of students report being hit or pushed, have mean rumors spread about them, or have been called bad names. 10% have seen a weapon at school in the past 12 months.Disciplinary environment, 69% of students say students are well-behaved, 62% say students are treated fairly when they break school rules. 90% of students say they are treated with respect,13% report some experience with alcohol or drug use most or all of the time and none report smoking. Middle:School Engagement and Support, 33% feel connected to school, and 46% are academically motivated. 1% have been truant in the past twelve months.  36% of 7th grade students maintain caring adult relationships at school, 50% have high expectations and 23% meaningful participation. 18% say schools are clean and well maintained.  School Safety and Substance Use: 80% feel safe at school.  30% of students report some kind of harassment or bullying, 35% report mean rumors or lies about them, 14% report being afraid of being beaten up, 9% have been in a physical fight and 9% have seen a weapon on campus in the past twelve months. None report having been drunk or ‘high’ on drugs at school ever. Mental and Physical Health 2% reported alcohol or drug use, none report binge drinking, being very drunk or ‘high’ seven or more times, or current cigarette smoking. 16% indicated experiencing some chronic sadness or hopelessness within the past twelve months. High: 9th/11th grade responses are reported separately.School Engagement and Support: 28%25% feel connected to school, and 42%/36% are academically motivated. 1%/4% have been truant in the past twelve months. 30% maintain caring adult relationships at school, 50% have high expectations and 15%/13% report meaningful participation. 18/16% say schools are clean and well maintained. School Safety and Substance Use, 77/78%% feel safe at school.  30/29% experience harassment or bullying. 29%/34% have  mean rumors or lies spread about them, 9%/5% are afraid of being beaten up, 10%/8% have been in a physical fight, 10%/8% have seen a weapon on campus in the past 30 days, and 3%/11% have been drunk or ‘high’ on drugs at school ever. 16% of High School students experienced some chronic sadness or hopelessness within the past twelve months.Mental and Physical Health. In the past 30 days 8%/25% report alcohol or drug use, 3%/10% report binge drinking, 3%/12% report being very drunk or ‘high’ seven times or more, 1%/2% report cigarette smoking 7%/20% report electronic cigarette use In the past twelve months.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
32669693230083|Plumas Charter|6|Plumas Charter School annually implements a Student Climate Survey for students in grades 3-12.  243 students participated in the survey in the Spring of 2019.  Improving and supporting a healthy school climate is goal 2 on the schools current LCAP.  Typically the results of this survey are overwhelmingly positive, but there is always important feedback from students on ways that their experience with PCS can improve.  The main take a ways from the last survey were:  For students in grades 7-12: *More opportunities for students to be decision makers:  Staff is embracing the suggestion of providing regular and obvious opportunities for students to make decisions around what they are learning.  For example, providing choices on assignment options, participating in student student government and councils, and encouraging students to have input on course formatting and sequencing. *Feedback stressed the importance of relationships with adults:  Staff actively seeks to build relationships with students.  *Feedback stressed fairness and equity in the treatment of kids:  The behavior policies and approach to student discipline is a topic for regular collaboration at staff meetings.  Open communication with staff, students and parents is encouraged. *Feedback suggests the continued importance of teaching empathy:  The school's use of the Nurtured Heart Approach, Second Step curriculum, Reading with Relevance, and the socioemotional components of NewsELA supports this. *Making schoolwork relevant:  Staff are challenged daily, to ensure relevancy of school work to life.  This is a part of the overall teacher evaluation rubric, and staff who have struggled with this, have created SMART goals with administration around how to improve. *Teaching confidence and grit:  Staff agrees that providing opportunities for students that actively teach confidence, grit, resilience and commitment, is an important part of all student's education.  An example of how the school accomplishes this, is actively involving students in their own assessment and growth process.  Encouraging students to set and meet goals for themselves.  For students in grades 3-6 : *Honoring and inquiring about student ideas:  Similar to the older student's feedback, elementary students too need to feel invested in their learning, and to feel like they have some control over it.  An example of how the staff embraced this feedback, is allowing students weekly to pick a topic of choice that is relevant to a school subject, to do independent research on the topic and share out with classmates.  Other examples are allowing students input in opportunities for field trips and enrichment activities. *Feedback suggests the continued importance of teaching empathy:  As mentioned above, the consistent attention to improving and supporting school climate through specific materials and approaches is a goal in the school's LCAP.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
32103220000000|Plumas County Office of Education|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was given to students in grades 7, 9 and 11. Results are available at pcoe.k12.ca.us. The School Climate Survey was administered to elementary students with the following baseline results: C. Roy Carmichael 3.01 Chester Elementary 3.15 Indian Valley Elementary not administered Quincy Elementary 2.76  These results show varying levels of successes and challenges with school climate.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
58727440000000|Plumas Lake Elementary|6|PLESD administers and analyzes the California Healthy Kids survey every year for our 7th grade students. PLESD also administered and analyzed a student survey in grades T/K-8 in 2016-17 focused on school climate with an emphasis on bullying and mean behavior. These surveys showed that overall we have very positive school climates at all three schools. They also gave us direction on developing an anti-bullying plan and implementing a social and emotional curriculum for the 2019-20 school year.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
32669690000000|Plumas Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was given to students in grades 7, 9 and 11. Results are available at pcoe.k12.ca.us. The School Climate Survey was administered to elementary students with the following baseline results: C. Roy Carmichael 3.01 Chester Elementary 3.15 Indian Valley Elementary not administered Quincy Elementary 2.76  These results show varying levels of successes and challenges with school climate.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
23655990000000|Point Arena Joint Union High|6||||Not Met|2019
09619600000000|Pollock Pines Elementary|6|In the Spring of 2019 the district administered the Mini-Core survey of the California Healthy Kids Survey at Sierra Ridge to the 8th grade students.  Below is Summary of Key Indicators from the Survey.  The data reflects the percentage of responses that "Agree or Strongly Agree with the question:  SCHOOL ENGAGEMENT and SUPPORTS School Connectedness - 63% Academic Motivation - 65% Chronic Truancy(twice a month or more often) - 7% Caring Adult relationships - 66% High Expectations - 76% Meaningful participation - 35% Facilities upkeep - 54% Parent involvement in school - 55%  SCHOOL SAFETY School perceived as very safe or safe - 71% Experienced and harassment or bullying - 64% Had mean rumors or lies spread about you - 59% Been afraid of being beaten up - 24% Been in a physical fight - 16% Seen a weapon on campus - 15%  MENTAL HEALTH Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness - 43% Considered suicide - 26% The district has taken the following actions to address some of the findings from the Survey. In the area of Chronic Truancy, the district is focused on increasing attendance and working with the support of the County Office on this area through the El Dorado Professional Improvement Community (EPIC) In the area of Meaningful participation the district is exploring Universal Design for Learning (UDL), which focuses on student engagement. In the area of harassment or bulling, the district has provided training for all staff on Positive Behavior Intervention Strateties (PBIS) and Love and Logic strategies.  The middle school is forming a PBIS committee to address negative behavior such as harassment and bullying. In the area of being afraid of being beaten up, the middle school has implemented incident reporting and a mediation process. In the area of Mental Health, the district has provided training to all staff on suicide prevention and works closely with the county mental health department on any issues that arise.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647336018774|Pomelo Community Charter|6|Pomelo Community CS administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall, as did all of LAUSD.  The following highlights areas of strength pertaining to school climate at Pomelo:  Our School Experience Survey participation rate was 90%, which is 8% higher than the district at large; we will continue to strive for 100%.  90% of Pomelo Community CS students reported being happy to be at this school, which is higher than the 85% of LAUSD students.  87% reported that teachers at this school treat students fairly.  While 80% of LAUSD elementary students feel safe in their schools, at Pomelo 86% agree that they feel safe on campus. We will continue to build on these achievements, to implement our Schoolwide Positive Behavior Intervention Support plan, and to work on social and emotional well-being through programs such as Restorative Justice.|2019-10-17|Pomelo has taken multiple steps to continue to improve and develop a school climate that is welcoming for all students and their families.  In addition to opening our doors to a diverse student body via our lottery admission process for students living outside of our residential boundaries, we have chosen to fund a full-time Targeted School Population Coordinator and a Community Rep who identify the disparate needs of our students.  Using data, they design and implement workshops and interventions to assist teachers, parents, caregivers and students in reaching their educational goals.  Our multi-tiered levels of support include one-on-one and small group interventions, flexible groupings, and student support teams who come together to explore solutions collaboratively.  All stakeholders are encouraged to participate in a plethora of school events and activities, including but not limited to conferences, meetings, workshops, seminars, celebrations, student performances, and volunteer days.  99% of all parents attend parent-teacher conferences and school performances; 96% feel that the school informs them of events and activities in different ways.    And area of growth might be to continue to reach out to the parents of under-performing students in an effort to ensure that they collaborate and have increased input on ways we can best address their needs and help their children be more successful in school.|Met|2019
19649070000000|Pomona Unified|6|Pomona Unified School District is using the results of the California Health Kids Survey (CHKS) as valid, reliable and consistent data. According to the district’s School Climate Report Card (SCRC) based on CHKS, fifth graders reported having a 6% increase in School Connectedness and 7% increase in Perceived School Safety from 2017-18 baseline scores to 2018-19. The District School Climate Index (SCI) on the District’s SCRC showed a positive change over the last five years for the secondary level. The SCI score for middle schools increased from 240 points in 2015 to 245 points in 2019 while the high school SCI score went up three points from 278 points in 2015 to 281 points in 2019. Although the middle and high school report cards show a decrease in the “Overall Supports and Engagement” subscale which includes the categories of Perceived School Safety and School Connectedness, the overall SCI score accounted for a significant positive change in Overall Low Violence and Substance Use over the years. The district has been rolling out PBIS and introducing teachers to trauma informed practices over the last couple of years which can help focus on improving areas of high expectations and caring relationships as well as school connectedness.   Summary Results: (Elementary) School Safety = Met, Increased by 7% and School Connectedness = Met, Increased by 6%; SCI score over 5 years (2015-2019): MS = Met, Increased by 5; HS = Met, Increased by 3|2019-10-16||Met|2019
15637190000000|Pond Union Elementary|6|The survey results indicate that they feel connected to school and have academic motivation.  This includes socioeconomically disadvantaged, limited English proficient and students with special needs.  70% of all students feel the school has caring adults that have high expectations for them.  The highest percent of results was found in the area that students feel very safe at school.   The survey results indicate that students are not involved in alcohol or drug use. No students have indicated cigarette smoking.  Approximately 40% of students have experienced harassment or bullying at school. 20% have been in a physical fight. These results have been shared with staff and stakeholders.  Pond school has identified bullying and fighting as a challenge school wide.  Staff members including playground and bus driver personnel have attended workshops and information to raise awareness of these challenges.  Staff development days and small informal groups have created opportunities to share strategies.  Students are rewarded for good behavior.  Parent/student conferences are conducted to address students that continually experience difficulties.   Additional actions include the establishment of a leadership community at the school were students are included in activities that enhance student involvement in leadership.  Students are also provided buddies to pair up and support school attendance and positive behavior.  Assemblies are conducted to reinforce students with positive or improved behavior and attendance.  Results from these actions have shown a reduction in harassment and fighting.  Attendance school wide is improving.|2019-10-08|Pond is a relatively small school.  Parents and students view the school as a central part of the community.  Pond school supports that by involving families with parent teas and luncheons, family carnivals and parent trainings.|Met|2019
28662820000000|Pope Valley Union Elementary|6|Pope Valley Union Elementary annually conducts a locally designed school climate survey. The survey is administered to all classes, with 22 students completing it. In addition to school safety and connectedness, the survey also measures academic effort, student priorities for the school district, and participation in the Character Counts program. In the Spring of 2017, results indicated that: 83.3% of students reported feeling safe at school. While 100% reported they participated in class and felt connected to some degree. The Spring 2018 results indicated that:72.4% of students report feeling safe at school.  Again, 100% report they participated in class and felt connected to some degree. In the Spring of 2019, 100% again agreed they participate in class with 77% reported feeling they learn a lot in math class.  82% reported feeling Pope Valley was a safe place to go to school with another 14% feeling neutral to this question. To improve and further build on the character counts and Positive Action work, the district applied and received a school climate grant with the Napa County Office of Education designed to further enhance our positive behavior programs.  The district continues to utilize the Positive Action program, in conjunction with Character Counts and school teams.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647330107755|Port of Los Angeles High|6|Strengths:  School safety and school connectedness are pillars in POLAHS' culture. Stakeholders feel a sense of pride and members of the POLAHS community and visitors feel that pride as soon as they enter the doors. School surveys are used to gather stakeholder input on school climate. In regards to working environment, POLAHS teachers report that there is trust and collegiality among staff. 97 percent of teachers have close relationships with one another and feel a responsibility to improve the school. 100 percent of the staff reports that they work hard to ensure a safe and supportive environment for students. 97 percent of POLAHS parents report that they would recommend POLAHS as a high school. 94 percent of parents feel their parent-school relationship includes enough opportunities for honest feedback and 83 percent feel their child has a good relationship with faculty. Students report the same satisfaction with the climate of their school. 86 percent of students feel they are respected by their staff and 94 percent of students report they have adequate supplies to succeed in school.  Challenges:  There is an overall sense of safety and positive culture at POLAHS. POLAHS takes great pride in the facility and provides a clean, supervised, and ideal environment for learning and although stakeholders do feel safe, data also shows that there are risk behaviors prevalent on campus.  However, as with many high schools across the country, POLAHS has been challenged with the increase of student risk behaviors associated with substance abuse.  Healthy Kids Staff Survey data shows a perceived need in the area of alcohol or drug use prevention and tobacco use prevention. When asked if students have used alcohol, marijuana, inhalants and/or drugs, the following was reported: 31 percent of 9th graders, 37 percent of 10th graders, 41 percent of 11 graders and 55 percent of 12th graders reported use. AOD (Alcohol and Other Drug) use is noted mostly in alcohol and marijuana.  Parents of POLAHS students reported concerns with tobacco, electronic cigarettes, and drug and alcohol usage.    Use:  In an effort to address these needs, POLAHS has established a School Safety Committee in the 2019-2020 school year.  This committee will evaluate the data and begin to implement prevention strategies that include campus supervision measures, professional development opportunities for teachers in the area of student risk behavior, and student and parent educational opportunities as a means to address these needs for all stakeholders.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
54755230137968|Porterville Military Academy|6|Porterville Military Academy opened in 18-19 and will use their 19-20  Healthy Kids survey as their baseline. The 18-19 Dashboard results will also be used as a baseline. The report is based on PUSD California Healthy Kids (CHKS) survey used in 2017-2018 as a baseline to get parents’ input. The survey content overview is as follows: Characteristics of parent respondents and their children; Student supports and school conditions (learning environment, school discipline, cultural sensitivity, opportunities for meaningful student participation); How welcoming the school is to parents; The scope and nature of parental involvement in school activities and decision-making; The scope and nature of school communications to parents; Parental involvement in their children’s education; and Parental perceptions of student risk behaviors (how much of a problem at the school. PUSD used the California Healthy Kids survey from 2017-2018 as a baseline to attain students’ input in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade.The  questions  are  aligned  with  the  staff  and  parent  surveys  so  information  obtained  across  these  three  stakeholder groups can be compared. In 2018-19 the total number of student respondents were 4,007. Last year there were 3,046 student respondents. Students were given the option of “Yes, all of the time”, “Yes, most of the time”, “Yes, some of the time” and “No, never “. Here are the CHKS results for student sense of safety and connectedness to school for elementary. Elementary averaged 67% Yes, all of the time” and  “Yes, most of the time” a growth of +22% from the year before. Overall School Connectedness Scales for middle school & high school  averaged 60% of “Strongly agree”  & “Agree”. For School Safety  73% of elementary students feel safe “All the time” or “Most of the Time”. For middle schools and high schools perceived safety at school average of 59% “Very Safe” & “Safe” an increase of 3% from last year.  All students need to feel safe and connected to school so that they continue to attend school, behave appropriately, and attain a high school graduation diploma. Overall in the HKS survey 92% of all parents, 73% of elementary students, and 60% of high school students feel that school is a safe place an average of 75%. The following information was also obtained from the Dashboard data of Fall 2018 to report student connectedness: Attendance rate = 94%, Suspension rate = 6%, and Expulsion rate = 0.6% and Graduation rate of 84.6%. PUSD/PMA will continue to provide personalized learning plans to give students the opportunity to link academics to their career interest through assessment of the graduate outcome rubric, interest inventories and enrollment in career exploration electives. PUSD/PMA will continue to  implement academic social, and behavioral interventions, transition programs, mentoring, early intervention programs, and after school activities to support students' connectedness to school.|2019-10-24|PUSD will provide a wide array of CTE classes to increase student engagement and motivation. PUSD school campuses have been secured and enclosed by a fence. All schools have functional security cameras and shade structures. PUSD has hired additional personnel counselors, psychologists, nurses and behavioral intervention specialist to meet the social & emotional needs of students.|Met|2019
54755230000000|Porterville Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids (CHKS) survey was used in 2017-2018 as a baseline to get parents and students’ input. Survey content overview is as follows: Characteristics of parent respondents and their children; Student supports and school conditions (learning environment, school discipline, cultural sensitivity, opportunities for meaningful student participation); How welcoming the school is to parents; The scope and nature of parental involvement in school activities and decision-making; The scope and nature of school communications to parents; Parental involvement in their children’s education; and Parental perceptions of student risk behaviors (how much of a problem at the school. PUSD used the California Healthy Kids survey in 2017-2018 as a baseline to attain students’ input in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade.The  questions  are  aligned  with  the  staff  and  parent  surveys  so  information  obtained  across  these  three  stakeholder groups can be compared. In 2018-19 the total number of student respondents were 4,007 a 30% increase from 2017-18 school year. Students were given the option of “Yes, all of the time”, “Yes, most of the time”, “Yes, some of the time” and “No, never “. Here are the CHKS results for student sense of safety and connectedness to school for elementary. Elementary averaged 67% Yes, all of the time” and  “Yes, most of the time” a growth of +22% from the year before. Overall School Connectedness Scales for middle school & high school  averaged 60% of “Strongly agree”  & “Agree”. For School Safety  73% of elementary students feel safe “All the time” or “Most of the Time”. For middle schools and high schools perceived safety at school average of 59% “Very Safe” & “Safe” an increase of 3% from last year.   All students need to feel safe and connected to school so that they continue to attend school, behave appropriately, and attain a high school graduation diploma. Overall in the HKS survey 92% of all parents, 73% of elementary students, and 60% of high school students feel that school is a safe place an average of 75%. The following information was also obtained from the Dashboard data of Fall 2018 to report student connectedness: Attendance rate = 94%, Suspension rate = 6%, and Expulsion rate = 0.6% and Graduation rate of 84.6%. PUSD will continue to provide personalized learning plans and transition process to give students the opportunity to link academics to their career interest through assessment of the graduate outcome rubric, interest inventories and enrollment in career exploration electives. PUSD will continue to  implement academic social, and behavioral interventions, transition programs, mentoring, early intervention programs, and after school activities to support students' connectedness to school.|2019-10-24|PUSD will provide a wide array of CTE classes to increase engagement and motivation of students. Such as  Agriculture Leadership, Computer Applications in Agriculture, Principles of Investigation, Informational Technology, Music Keyboarding, Voice Class, Green Methods, Biomedical Science, Graphic Design, Entrepreneur Project and others. PUSD school campuses have been secured and enclosed by a fence. All schools have functional security cameras and shade structures. PUSD has hired additional personnel counselors, psychologists, nurses and behavioral intervention specialist to meet the social & emotional needs of all students.|Met|2019
41689810000000|Portola Valley Elementary|6|The Portola Valley School District administers a school climate survey annually to parents and students in grades 4-8.  Students in grades K-3 take the survey bi-annually.  Results of the 2018-19 survey indicate: 90% of students K-8 feel safe, supported and connected at school.  87% of our students indicate that they like to come to school. 82% of students say that teachers support them; 88% say that teachers help them.  91% of our students say they get along with their classmates and that their school is a caring community and a positive environment.  The lowest percentage of positive response was 70% for feeling comfortable talking to a teacher about a problem.   Results of the parent survey indicate that our school environments foster:  respect - 81%, responsibility - 86%, kindness - 88%, collaboration - 86%, integrity - 78% and perseverance - 71%.   We look critically at this data each year in order to ensure that we are offering environments that are not only conducive to learning but that foster growth in the social emotional learning areas.  As a result of the Climate Survey, our 4-8 school began the Flex Class Program so that students had the opportunity to have one consistent teacher they see daily for help with assignments, projects in the hope that they will also build relationships with that teacher so he/she is one that students identify as being an ally to assist with any other problems they may have at school.  At the K-3 school a "Families" program has begun to help to bring students of all grades together to practice life skills outside of the regular classroom and to also develop relationships with a teacher who is not their classroom teacher.  Children stay with their family teacher for the duration of their years in the K-3 school.|2019-10-23|School Climate continues to be a strength at both schools.  The schools are invested in continuing to build a strong culture among staff, students and parents.  Positive Behavior Intervention System (PBIS) and membership in the Challenge Success Program through Stanford University are just two examples of how our district works to foster strong communities.  We are fortunate to have two full time counselors (one at each site) who are charged with teaching social emotional learning at all grade levels as well as offering support to students and their families in the areas of academics and other needs.  The 4-8 school has put a special emphasis on transition from the K-3 school to grade 4 and from grade 5 to middle school based on feedback on our parent surveys about seamless transition.  The K-3 school is currently participating in MTSS training through our County Office of Education in order to further develop their already robust support system for students who need support to be successful in school.|Met|2019
23738660000000|Potter Valley Community Unified|6|The LEA administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in the spring of 2019.  This data will be reviewed by the District Advisory committee and used to inform the LCAP cycle.|2019-11-13|The school sites regular analyze discipline, grade, and attendance data as part of the MTSS school climate initiative.|Met|2019
37682960000000|Poway Unified|6|To analyze the school climate at our sites, the California Healthy Kids Survey was used. This tool was administered in October/November 2018 to students in grades 5,7,9, and 11. It is administered to our students on a bi-annual basis. The information gleaned from this tool provides our staff with focus areas for sites to enhance their overall school student experience. This data also informs site level social emotional goals in the newly formatted Single Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA). Stakeholders may review their school's SPSA document for specific social emotional goals created for the 2019-2020 school year.This information is located on our district's website under "District Reports." In response to the survey results, the Poway Unified School District has implemented the following supports: No Place for Hate - Anti-Defamation League, Start with Hello - Sandy Hook Promise, Second Step Curriculum - Social Emotional Learning Curriculum, Character Counts, additional counselors and increased hours for our Student Support Services personnel, Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS), and the "MIndful Moment." To ascertain yearly student perception data, many of our sites will implement student focused site surveys during the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647330127936|PREPA TEC - Los Angeles|6|The large majority of students felt safe and happy at school. The large majority of students felt teachers were fair and that the school was a safe environment (87% vs. 12%).  In the area of feeling supported by the school 77% vs. 5% stated that the staff cares about them.  In the area of Drug/Tobacco and Alcohol 96-99% of students deny ever using tobacco, inhalants, pills and 100% deny ever using Marijuana. However only 100% deny drinking any alcohol. This is an area of concern. Student safety had mixed results. 32% of students stated that they had been harassed/bullied at least once at school and 15% also stated that the harassment was of a sexual nature, however 89% reported that they still feel safe. 87% also stated that they have never had a physical altercation at school. 98% also stated that they have no affiliation with gangs Emotional health is a concern in that 8% of students stated that they have contemplated suicide and 22% have felt depressed Based on these general outcomes Prepa Tec Los Angeles will continue to provide access to counseling services at no cost. Prepa Tec will continue to educate students on the dangers of alcohol and drug abuse and reach out to community support groups to join us in our efforts to become Drug and alcohol free.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19769920133900|Prepa Tec Los Angeles High|6|On a recent survey on their opinion about the school, the results showed that 88% of the students indicated they were Neutral to Strongly Agreed that they were happy at the school.  When asked if they feel safe at school, 95% indicated they were Neutral to Strongly Agreed.  In the area of clean school, 96% indicated they were Neutral to Strongly Agreed.  When asked if Parents were welcomed to participate at school, 92% response was Neutral to Strongly Agreed.  In the area of taking parent concerns seriously, 91% response was Neutral to Strongly Agreed.  When asked if they believed that staff wants them to do their best, 88% response was Neutral to Strongly Agreed. PTLAHS staff was surveyed and the following were the results: 83% of teachers indicated they emphasize teaching in a manner that is relevant for students.  89% believe PTLAHS handles discipline problems fairly.  100% indicated that PTLAHS promotes academic success for all.  97% indicated that PTLAHS emphasizes respect for all students; and 81% agree that PTLAHS considers closing the achievement gap a high priority.  93% believes that PTLAHS is a safe place for students.  100% believe that the school is clean and well maintained. Based on the results, overall students are satisfied with being at PTLAHS and staff generally believes teaching promotes academic success for all.|2019-10-08|Area of growth is to work with teachers on creating engaging inquiry based learning experiences for students and making our efforts to close the achievement gap explicit.|Met|2019
37683383731189|Preuss School UCSD|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to students in grades 7-12 in 2018-19.  The great majority of the questions were school-specific.  Indicators included: • Student grades, truancy, reasons for missing school, academic motivation, and school connectedness, as indicators of engagement. • The levels of students’ three fundamental developmental supports (protective factors) that promote positive academic, social, and emotional outcomes: experiences of caring adult relationships, high expectations, and opportunities for meaningful participation at school. • Perceived safety and the frequency and type of harassment and bullying at school. • Levels of violence, substance use, and crime-related behavior (e.g., weapons possession) at school.  A high percentage of students feel safe at school and a majority feel close to people at the school. Students also reported they feel supported and encouraged by someone at school. Drug and alcohol use increases as students get older but the percentage of lifetime usage still remains below 20% across all grades.  Sadness affects some students on a regular basis, with school showing higher percentage of students experiencing sadness. The percentage range of students in high school seriously considering suicide was from 4% (12th grade)-8% (9th grade).  Stress is also a concern, with students at all grade levels feeling some stress on a regular basis. The amount of stress and number of students reporting stress seems to increase as students go from middle school to high school.  In middle school the top three stressors in order are academics, family, and peers. In high school the top three stressors in order are academics, college/future, and family.   Lack of sleep and being behind in schoolwork are two of the most common reasons for missing school, behind illness. The amount of sleep decreases from middle school to high school.  Survey results have been shared with Preuss staff and faculty, and they are discussing ways to further address students’ needs.  There has been discussion about giving students the vocabulary for expressing concerns, as well as how to seek help.|2019-06-06||Met|2019
43693856046486|Price Charter Middle|6|PBIS School Climate Survey - Spring 2019: All students in Grades 3-8.  Number of Students1841 Percentage of students in grades 3-8 who responded “Often” or “Always”.  Survey Questions (Responses from 2018 to 2019) & Change - I like the school. (64% to 70%) + 6% - I feel like I do well in school. (73% to 76%) +3% - My school wants me to do well. (89% to 90%) +1% - My school has clear rules for behavior. (89% to 89%) 0% - Teachers treat me with respect. (89% to 89%) 0% - Good behavior is noticed at my school. (63% to 67%) +4% - I get along with other students. (80% to 78%) -2% - I feel safe at school. (81% to 81%) 0% - Students treat each other well. (69% to 64%) -5% - There is an adult who will help me if I need it. (78% to 81%) 3%  Based on the results of the survey, the CSD staff will be using the data to discuss areas of improvement.  The following are actions that staff will be implementing in the 2018-19 school year:  - Review the results of the school climate survey with all staff and identify areas of improvement where the survey results in less than 80% of students responded "often" or "always". - Staff will also share and discussed overall students' results of the survey with students to better understand our students' needs and what actions or support staff and sites can improve or change. - Staff will administer a pre and post-assessment of the changes and monitor the progress of the changes as they relate to students' perceptions of school climate.|2019-10-02|Cambrian School District has been implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS).  A key strategy of the PBIS process is prevention.  The PBIS model is a research-based strategy that is supported by the state of California and the federal Department of Education. The 3-tiered approach reduces problem behavior as a barrier to student achievement. We only have 180 days each year to advance academic progress, so instructional time is very valuable. Research shows that schools following the PBIS model recover thousands of hours of instructional time and, on average, four days of student instruction per year.|Met|2019
39754990102384|Primary Charter|6|A survey was administered in February for all grades in the school.  The results indicated high satisfaction with the program and the communication and indicated a desire for more input.|2019-10-14|There is a waiting list for Primary Charter and a great desire for children to be admitted.  Rarely does a parent withdraw their child from the school.  The main reason for withdrawal is moving away from the area.|Met|2019
11626460000000|Princeton Joint Unified|6|This survey is being administered now.  Results will be published after the survey ends on October 31st, 2019.  Previously we have used this data in the LCAP process, Advisory Committee meetings, Board Discussions, etc...|2019-10-17|MET|Met|2019
36678763630993|Provisional Accelerated Learning Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330131847|Public Policy Charter|6|In 2018-19 the school administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in grades 5, 6,7 and 8, in preparation for the development of the 2019-20 LCAP. The interpretation of the survey was presented to the school's Board with the LCAP and is published for the public through the California School Dashboard.  DATA - School Connectedness; Grade 6, 47% indicated High Connectedness, and 53% indicated Moderate Connectedness (average 64% showed connectedness), Grade 7, 65% indicated High Connectedness and 29% indicated Moderate Connectedness and 6% showed Low Connectedness (average of 71% showed connectedness), Grade 8, 46% indicated High Connectedness and 37% indicated Moderate Connectedness and 17% showed Low Connectedness (average 61% showed Connectedness).  Perceived Safety at School; Grade 6, 53% responded High Perceived Safety (Very Safe) and 42% responded Moderate Perceived Safety (Safe), Grade 7, 28% indicated High Perceived Safety (Very Safe) and 38% indicated Moderate Perceived Safety (Safe), Grade 8, 10% indicated High Perceived Safety (Very Safe) and 49% responded Moderate Perceived Safety (Safe). 28% of 7th Graders, and 32% of 8th Graders responded that they felt "Neither Safe Nor Unsafe".   MEANING –In some very significant areas such as Meaningful Participation in the school, PPCS is working on ways to include student input in the school’s activities, in addition to student council, parent involvement and one-on-one communication with students on an ongoing basis.  The school has identified through the interpretation of this survey that it is strong in showing students that there are adults on campus who care about them and with whom they connect. The school has decided to administer a short School Satisfaction survey to students and parents towards the end of the Semester 1, to implement improvements in Semester 2.   USE – The school will continue to utilize its Principal, Teachers, Instructional Aides, Social Worker and RSP coordinator to engage students in conversations that would give them insight into any perceived or real challenges. Using these insights, the school will support individual or groups of students with the necessary resources. The school will continue to focus on and include parents/guardians in continued communication on their child’s academic and socio-emotional well-being. Further, the California Healthy Kids Survey will be administered annually to garner understanding on how the school is progressing.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
36678760109850|Public Safety Academy|6|DATA:  Public Safety Academy administered an internal student survey in April 2019 using the Likert scale measuring the school’s LCAP goals and priorities.  It is found that 81.9% of students in grades 6-12 participated in the survey.  78.9% of students agree or strongly agree that PSA provides all students with access to computers while at school throughout the day. 78% of students agree or strongly agree that PSA uses programs like after school tutoring and advisory to align academic interventions as identified from assessment data findings, student work, and grade level content standards to ensure that students are on track towards grade level mastery. 40.1% of students agree or strongly agree that parents help in the decision making at PSA.  MEANING: Based on survey results, Public Safety Academy excels in providing all students with access to technology throughout the school day.  It is also found that Public Safety Academy is highly effective in creating and maintaining programs such as the tutoring program.  This program aligns and assists students while aligning academic interventions as identified from assessment data findings, student work, and grade level content standards to ensure that students are on track towards grade level mastery. An area of need that was determined from the survey results is that students believe that parents should play more of a role in decision making at Public Safety Academy.  This are of need has been previously identified, and is consistent with the school’s LCAP Goal #3, Action 2.   USE: For the 2019-2020 school year, Public Safety Academy has increased the number of opportunities for parents to participate at school.  For example, more classes have been offered to help parents better understand how to help their child apply for financial aid for college, and why it is important for their child to take a-g approved courses.  There has been an increase in parent participation with these workshops.  Parents also are invited to the monthly School Site Council (SSC) meeting where major school decisions are made, such as the Comprehensive Emergency Safety Plan approval and LCAP input process.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
19647330133298|PUC CALS Middle School and Early College High|6|PUC CALS MS and ECHS conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC CALS MS STUDENT SURVEY 2019: Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 68% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 74% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 72% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 80% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 79% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 83% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 65% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 85%  PUC CALS MS received an “Average % Favorable” of 78%.  An overall score of 4.17 of 5.  Focus for PUC CALS MS is ensuring strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a continued focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.    PUC CALS ECHS STUDENT SURVEY 2019: Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 67% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 75% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 74% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 81% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 80% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 81% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 67% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 84%  PUC CALS ECHS received an “Average % Favorable” of 77%.  An overall score of 4.18 of 5.  Continued focus on professional development for teachers to design rigorous and engaging learning experiences as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330129619|PUC Community Charter Elementary|6|PUC Community Charter Elementary School conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.      Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate Learning is important in my classroom 88% Care I like the way my teacher treats me when I need help 78% Care My teacher makes me feel that she really cares about me 67% Confer My teacher wants me to share my thinking and ideas 52% Consolidate My teacher takes the time to help me think about what I have learned 55% Control My teacher makes sure that I follow the classroom norms and the Habits of a Scholar 79% Safety I know my teacher will help me if I feel that people are being unkind. 78%  PUC CCES received an “Average % Favorable” of 67%.  An overall score of 3.51 of 4. “Confer” received the lowest score of 52%.  Focus for PUC CCES will continue to be on staff and student interaction and engagement to ensure that students share their thoughts and ideas.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647336116750|PUC Community Charter Middle and PUC Community Charter Early College High|6|PUC Community Charter Middle and Early College High School conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC CCMS:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 78% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 80% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 79% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 85% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 85% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 88% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 74% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 87%  PUC CCMS received an “Average % Favorable” of 84%.  An overall score of  4.37 of 5.  “Control” received the lowest score of 74%.  Focus for PUC CCMS will continue to be developing strong Rituals and Routines that are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.    PUC CCECHS:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 70% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 75% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 73% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 80% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 80% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 80% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 76% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 85%  PUC CCECHS received an “Average % Favorable” of 78%.  An overall score of 4.16 of 5.  “Captivate” received the lowest score with a 70%.  As such, focus will be on how teachers can create engaging educational experiences for all students.  In addition, focus for PUC CCECHS will continue to be professional development for teachers to design rigorous and culturally responsive learning experiences as well as a focus on positive relationships among all stakeholders.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330124933|PUC Early College Academy for Leaders and Scholars (ECALS)|6|PUC eCALS conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC eCALS: Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 65% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 72% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 66% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 77% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 76% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 76% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 69% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 80%  PUC eCALS received an “Average % Favorable” of 74%.  An overall score of 4.07 of 5. Focus for PUC eCALS is ensuring strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.  Additionally, there will be continued professional development for teachers to follow the Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.  Finally, there will be a focus on rigor and engagement in lesson planning.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330112201|PUC Excel Charter Academy|6|PUC Excel conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC Excel:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 69% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 73% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 71% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 78% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 76% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 81% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 62% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 79%  PUC Excel received an “Average % Favorable” of 77%.  An overall score of 4.17 of 5.  This demonstrates that the school has room for growth.  “Control” received the lowest score of 62%.  PUC Excel will continue to focus on ensuring strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.  Additionally, there will continue to be professional development for teachers to follow the Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.  Finally, leadership continues to take an active role in ensuring common language and effective communication for all stakeholders.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330129593|PUC Inspire Charter Academy|6|PUC Inspire Charter Academy conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 61% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 69% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 67% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 73% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 72% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 77% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 54% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 74%  PUC Inspire received an “Average % Favorable” of 72%.  An overall score of 4.01 out of 5.  “Control” received the lowest score of 54%.  Focus for PUC ICA will continue to be to ensure that strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330102442|PUC Lakeview Charter Academy|6|PUC Lakeview Charter Academy conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 76% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 81% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 79% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 83% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 84% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 87% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 67% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 88%  PUC LCA received an “Average % Favorable” of 82%.  An overall score of 4.31 out of 5. “Control” received the lowest score of 67%.  Focus for PUC LCA continues to be to ensure strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330122606|PUC Lakeview Charter High|6|PUC Lakeview Charter High School conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 70% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 77% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 74% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 83% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 82% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 83% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 77% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 87%  PUC LCHS received an “Average % Favorable” of 80%.  An overall score of 4.25 out of 5. “Captivate” received the lowest score of 70%.  As such, focus will be on how teachers can create engaging educational experiences for all students.  In addition, focus for PUC LCHS continues to be to ensure strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in refinements to the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330102426|PUC Milagro Charter|6|PUC Milagro conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.      Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC Milagro: Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate Learning is important in my classroom 96% Care I like the way my teacher treats me when I need help 78% Care My teacher makes me feel that she really cares about me 79% Confer My teacher wants me to share my thinking and ideas 71% Consolidate My teacher takes the time to help me think about what I have learned 77% Control My teacher makes sure that I follow the classroom norms and the Habits of a Scholar 91% Safety I know my teacher will help me if I feel that people are being unkind. 87%  PUC Milagro received an “Average % Favorable” of 80%.  An overall score of 3.7 of 4. “Confer” received the lowest score of 71%.  Focus for PUC Milagro will be on staff and student interaction and engagement to ensure that students share their thoughts and ideas.  In addition, focus for PUC Milagro is to continue working on strengthening their “Mindfulness” curriculum.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330133280|PUC Nueva Esperanza Charter Academy|6|PUC Nueva Esperanza Charter Academy conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC NECA:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 75% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 76% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 75% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 80% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 81% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 86% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 67% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 83%  PUC NECA received an “Average % Favorable” of 80%.  An overall score of 4.24 of 5.  “Control” received the lowest score of 67%.  Focus for PUC NECA continues to be that strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330119974|PUC Santa Rosa Charter Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
19647330133272|PUC Triumph Charter Academy and PUC Triumph Charter High|6|PUC TCA/TCHS:  PUC Triumph Charter Academy and PUC Triumph Charter High School conducts an annual student survey.  The comprehensive survey consists of 8 Constructs; Captivate, Care, Challenge, Clarify, Confer, Consolidate, Control, and Safety.  Safety was added in 2017-18 to align with the CA State Priorities.  Each teacher and every grade level is surveyed.    Questions and Favorable Ratings in the survey that relate to safety and connectedness are as follows:  PUC TCA:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating          General Education Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 72% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 74% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 72% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 80% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 78% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 85% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 68% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 84%  PUC TCA received an “Average % Favorable” of 79%.  An overall score of 4.21 of 5.  “Control” received the lowest score with a 68%.  As such, focus for PUC TCA continues to be to ensure strong Rituals and Routines are common across all teachers and grade levels as well as a focus on Tiered Intervention as represented in the Pyramid for Behavior Intervention.    PUC TCHS:  Construct Item/Question % Favorable Rating Captivate My teacher makes learning enjoyable 72% Care My teacher in this class makes me feel that she really cares about me 74% Care My teacher really tries to understand how students feel about things 73% Confer My teacher respects my ideas and suggestions 79% Confer My teacher wants us to share our thoughts 79% Consolidate My teacher checks to make sure we understand what s/he is teaching us 80% Control Student behavior in this class is under control 79% Safety I feel that my teacher will address situations of harassment, teasing or bullying if I let the teacher know. 83%   PUC TCHS received an “Average % Favorable” of 78%.  An overall score of 4.17 of 5.  “Captivate” received the lowest score with a 72%.  As such, focus will be on how teachers can create engaging educational experiences for all students.  In addition, PUC TCHS continues to focus on differentiation to meet the needs of all learners while pushing students to take responsibility and initiative for creating a culture of scholarliness in and out of the classroom.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647336120471|Puente Charter|6|A high percentage of our students and families who attend PUENTE live in the neighborhood immediately surrounding our school, designating us as true community school that is providing a response to the residents who are asking for high quality and early education resources for their family needs. Many of our families are able to walk to the PUENTE campus.   To support our school community of parents and caregivers our written and oral family communication is conducted in both English and Spanish to strengthen the home to school connection. Our culturally relevant learning environment respects and celebrates our diverse representation of students and is a key component of the strengths perspective of our school culture. Our predominately Latino population affords us the opportunity to ensure family communications are accessible in English and Spanish. Our students and families’ bilingual capacities are affirmed as assets to the school community. Our inclusive embracing of our families’ rich identities is a guiding principle of our school operations and is expressed through our available parent education supports. Our intentional emphasis on quality parent/caregiver engagement in support of a strong home to school connection serves to honor parents’ role as “first teacher” and to responsibly initiate parents into the school system.  One measurement of our success is outlined in our LCAP Parent Survey findings. Some of the key findings measuring our parent's perceptions of our school include: • 78% parents strongly agree that PUENTE Charter School is a friendly environment for students, parents, and families • 84% of the families strongly agree that PUENTE Charter School environment is clean and in good condition • 79% strongly agree that PUENTE is a safe place to learn.|2019-06-13|Cultural wealth is rooted deeply, as parents build familial capital by serving as cultural experts and sharing their life experiences with their children, evidenced by the relationship PUENTE has had with our Boyle Heights families during the term of the charter, and an integral component of the strengths perspective of our community.|Met|2019
10624146117865|Quail Lake Environmental Charter|6|A district total of 492 5th grade elementary students and 468 6th grade elementary students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 51%. Key Indicators of School Climate and Student Well-Being were in four areas including School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Disciplinary Environment. In the area of School Engagement and Supports students rated the sub-areas school connectedness, caring adult relationships and academic motivation the highest with a range of 79-90% describing the percentage of students who perceived that teachers cared for them, recognized their performance and created an environment conducive to feelings of connectedness to the adults at school. In the area of School Safety a full 82% of students feel safe at school “most or all of the time”. An average of 9% of 5th and 6th grade students reported mean rumors being spread about them or report having been called bad names. This is a focus area for the district. The Disciplinary Environment is viewed positively with 88% of students reporting being treated with respect.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
10622406108328|Rafer Johnson Junior High|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
10623800000000|Raisin City Elementary|6|Most critical, to the district from the survey was that 20% of student feel disconnected from student and adults, and 15% do not feel safe, and a few students have experimented with vaping. At home, there is also concern with some students that indicate parents may not be interested in students' study habits. The District will work with the staff to approach students more on a personal level when they notice students withdrawn from school activities, to make them feel connected and create a peer counseling group to bring awareness, within students and adults. More communication with parents will take place to collaborate and emphasize the importance of homework to be successful in school. The district will bring more anti-bulling presentations and be more preventive. PBIS will continue to improve, to bring about positive behavioral change.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
37683040000000|Ramona City Unified|6|The Local Indicator, The RUSD LCAP Survey, was shared with the RUSD Governing Board on March 12, 2019. The RUSD School Board, Cabinet members, LCAP Stakeholder Committee and advisory teams work to encourage all RUSD Stakeholders to partake in the local measure that is administered on a yearly basis. The LCAP Community Survey is open to all RUSD students, staff, parents, and community members. The findings throughout the RUSD LCAP Survey help RUSD monitor progress in the fours goals and also help drive any revisions to the goals, actions and services. In the 18-19 RUSD LCAP Survey, 70% (a decrease of 9% over the previous year) of elementary students, 53% (decrease of 3%) of secondary students, 76% (decrease of 2%) of staff, and 76% (decrease of 1%) of parents agree or strongly agree their school is safe.  In 18-19, students and parents participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey. 75% of fifth graders (baseline year), 67% of 7th graders, (increased by 11%), 45% of 9th graders (increased by 10%), 39% of 11th graders (increased by 5%), and  56% of all students at our non-traditional school (Montecito High School) (decreased by 22%) felt that our schools were safe or very safe.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37683120000000|Rancho Santa Fe Elementary|6|Rancho Santa Fe School District uses the tenets of Positive Discipline to create supportive and inclusive learning environment for all students.  We have formed a Social/Emotional Learning Committee to review how we teach social skills, how we support students in their social/emotional growth, what training is needed for teachers as they work with social/emotional issues, and what supports and education we provide for parents.  We measure climate through the annual parent survey, teacher and staff feedback, number of student discipline referrals, and administrative walkthroughs and observation.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
18641620000000|Ravendale-Termo Elementary|6|The District administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey to its small student population in order to gather input from students regarding school safety and school connectedness. Although all data from the survey is not available due to the small number of responses, the District shared results from the Survey with the governing board during the Spring of 2019. Students showed a very strong connection to the school and indicated that they were happy with their educational setting. Some students suggested that the District take a closer look at ways to bring musical instrument opportunities to the students and also an increased desire for field trips that expose students to more career opportunities.  The small school atmosphere at Juniper Ridge Elementary School lends itself well to providing a feeling of connectedness for our students. One teacher with a small student body presents an opportunity to create a "family" atmosphere that provides a lot of comfort for both students and parents alike.|2019-03-20|100% of parents and students felt that the school was a safe place as measured by the CA Healthy Kids Survey administered in the Fall of 2018.|Met|2019
41689990000000|Ravenswood City Elementary|6|After analysis of our CHKS data, we see limited student perception of drug use and violence in schools, but unexpectedly elevated experience of sadness - especially among third graders. This could be a result of student anxiety about their and their parents' immigration status and the stresses of living in poverty. For things within our sphere of influence, we are developing remediation strategies that we will monitor using continuous improvement as supported by our county office. One of the specific targets within our use of improvement science is chronic absenteeism that our African American students sometimes experience.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
20652760000000|Raymond-Knowles Union Elementary|6|The LEA's 2018/2019 Healthy Kids Survey results for the grade span K-5 and 6-8 stated that students fell happy, accepted, and cared for at school. They also reported working hard in school and always wanting to do their best. Teachers ans staff are willing to help them with their academics and they feel treated with respect by their peers and adults on campus. Students reported that bullying is taken care of when reported. The growth areas for the LEA according to the survey are in the grade span of 6-8 students feel as though they could have more say in school activities and rules, there was also a large percentage of students who responded yes to feeling sad or hopeless everyday for two weeks or more.  Another area of growth according to the K-5 results is it is perceived by students that other students are reading rumors about them.|2019-11-19||Met|2019
49709380120121|REACH|6|The school administered both parent and student surveys in 2019 that provided data related to student's feelings of safety and connectedness to the school. The 2018-19 LCAP set goals targeting 87% of parents reporting that their child feels engaged at school, and 90% of parents reporting that their child feels safe at school. 88% of parents responding in the school survey agree or strongly agree that their child feels engaged at school. 2% of students indicated that they felt unsafe at school while 74% felt safe or very safe, and 24% felt neither safe or unsafe. 86% of parents responding in the school survey agree or strongly agree that their child feel safe at school. In response to the reduced number of parents indicating that their child feels safe or very safe at school and in consultation with parents, REACH launched a three year Welcoming Schools implementation for the staff to address any issues of bias that may be arising in the school.|2019-10-17|REACH continues to grow capacity as a Positive Discipline Lab school as a means to address any student issues around feelings safe and engaged at school. All teaching staff are trained in the curriculum and the school has fully integrated the framework into school curriculum, as well as Board policies and disciplinary practices. Parents are afforded 2-3 opportunities per year to take a Positive Discipline workshop and learn the principles to extend into the family structure.|Met|2019
33672150126128|REACH Leadership STEAM Academy|6|The LEA conducted a climate survey titled REACH Parent/Guardian Survey 2018-19. We were able to collect responses from 112 respondents. Overall, parents were extremely satisfied with our program:  1. This school provides high quality instruction to my child: 94% agreed with this statement.  2. The school motivates students to learn: 96% agreed with the statement.  In terms of an area of growth, the LEA received mixed responses in the area of social-emotional support, discipline, and communication:  1. When asked by parents if the school provides quality counseling or other ways to help students with social or emotional needs, 43% agree with the statement. The LEA partnered with a local SELPA about 2 years ago and is currently building capacity towards its programming.  2. As it relates to providing activities that meet student interests, 72% of parents responded that they were satisfied with the programs offered. A separate survey of interests needs to go out to determine new interests.  3. As it relates to the school promptly responds to phone calls, messages, or e-mails, 85% responded that they were satisfied. This question will influence the next climate survey to determine which department or individuals in our school are not promptly responding to our parents.  4. As it relates to the school actively seeking the input of parents before making important decisions, 59% responded that they were satisfied, while the rest of responses range from disagree or don’t know. There are many ways parents can get involved in the governing of the school. The LEA will continue to advertise.  The LEA sent a separate survey to parents that were not able to attend our LCAP meetings in-person. We only had 10 respondents.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
01611430138552|REALM Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
52716390000000|Red Bluff Joint Union High|6|We want our students to feel our schools are a warm, caring, and safe environment. This starts with building positive relationships with our students. We are working diligently towards this goal and have already seen a positive impact on our campus, with data to support this. Our graduation rate has increased from 92.5% in 16-17 to 93.6 % in 18-19. Our overall P2 attendance rate was up, and our tardies have greatly reduced. Promoting school attendance will continue to be a district priority for us. We have seen a great reduction in tardies since the use of the 45 second alert system before the tardy bell. Tardies decreased from 800 tardies (baseline) to 515 tardies after the first week of using this system. Three months into the program, we were down to approximately 300 tardies per week. This year we are further working on reducing tardies by offering lunch detention and Saturday school to make up minutes of instruction lost.  Our GRIT center is accessed daily by a variety of students. We ask students to rate their current emotional state when they check in as well as when they check out, with the goal being that they feel more in control and calm when they leave our center. Seventy-one percent of students who accessed the GRIT center last year self-reported a reduction in severity of emotional state. Less than one percent reported the same rating when entering and leaving. No student rated themselves in a heightened emotional state when leaving the center. The additional 27% did not rate themselves when leaving, and this will be an area we work on this year so that we can better analyze our data. Additionally, we feel that the increase in positive behavior intervention supports have greatly impacted our youth, particularly in building positive relations with adults on campus. Our restorative justice and Spartan Success program has given students a positive connection with our teachers and administration. Students have anecdotally shared that they feel more connected on campus and have a vested interest in doing well in school. Our discipline data has shown these programs to have a positive impact. For example, our suspension numbers are declining every year and our rate has gone from 6.9% in 2016-2017, to 5.7% in 2017-2018, and while 2018-2019 numbers are not out in this area, our own calculations show a decrease from the year prior.  Additionally, our administration is tracking students who have been enrolled in the Spartan Success program and there have been significant improvements in grade point average, reduction in discipline referrals, and an increase in attendance. For example, last year, 15 out of 23 students enrolled in the class had a significant growth in their GPA from the first semester and second semester. Eight of these students had a GPA of 2.5 or higher after taking the class.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
52716210000000|Red Bluff Union Elementary|6|In 2018-19, Red Bluff Union Elementary School District collaborated with Youth Truth to administer student surveys. This was the first year to administer the survey, which will be done annually and in October of 2019.  Last year, 1,108 students in grades 3-8 were surveyed on their perceptions of their schools.  Students answered questions related to various themes. Survey questions for elementary students were rated on a scale of 1.0-3.0, with any score above 2.0 considered favorable.  Survey results showed favorable student data for all survey key measures: Academic Rigor, Relationships, Instructional Materials, Culture, and Safety.  At the elementary sites, 89% of students believe their teachers treats them with respect and 88% think their teacher cares about them.  An average of 93% of elementary students believe their teacher wants them to work their hardest.  The middle school survey questions were rated on a scale of 1.0-5.0  with any score above 3.5 considered favorable.  Key measures on the middle school varied slightly from the elementary survey. Student data was favorable on the following measures:  Academic Rigor, Relationships, Engagement, and Safety.  At the middle school, 62% of students believe most of the adults in the school treats them with respect and 85% think their teachers believe they can get a good grade if they try.  On the Safety measure the areas ranked at the top included responses to bullying and harassment where students reported the school has clear rules against hurting other people (4.2); adults at school try to stop bullying and harassment (3.9), and students usually try to help other students being bullied or harassed (3.9).  Although the key measure of Belonging and Connectedness was slightly below the favorable mark of 3.5 and rated 3.44, the students' responses to the questions in this measure were comparable to those reported in the typical middle school nationally and in other California middle schools.  Student comments included statements such as, "What I like most about my school is that I can be myself with all the people that go to the school and "They are nice, and everyone is usually positive."  Overall, the student surveys at both levels, elementary and middle, were positive.|2019-10-08|The District completed its fourth year of implementation of Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) which includes use of a Social Emotional Learning Curriculum.  Additionally, each school is staffed with a full-time counselor and psychologist who participate on both the site and district PBIS teams.  Staff training in the areas of trauma informed practices and evidence based behavior management practices has occurred over the past five years to support personnel in developing and supporting positive school climates and cultures for all.|Met|2019
45699710135848|Redding Collegiate Academy|6|Parent survey results indicate that 100% of parents like the school.  One area of for growth is parents understanding whether or not their students are educated about bullying; only 67% indicated that they were aware of this.  The school will seek to provide better communication with parents about  how students are educated in bullying prevention.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
45701100000000|Redding Elementary|6|Fifth and seventh grade students participated in an annual climate survey. Eighty-four percent of students reported feeling safe. This was an increase of five percent from the previous year. Seventy-five percent of fifth and seventh grade students reported feeling a sense of connectedness. This was an increase of seven percent from the previous year. The increase of students feeling safe and connected can be seen as a correlation of one hundred percent of teachers reporting the use of Capturing Kids Hearts strategies within his/her classroom. An action to continue improvement will be continuing to provide staff development in the area of Capturing Kids Hearts and Positive Behavior Intervention Support.|2019-06-25||Met|2019
45699480134122|Redding School of the Arts|6|During the 2018-19 school year Redding School of the Arts administered a comprehensive School Climate Survey to all 5th thru 8th grade students.  Key findings were presented to various stakeholder groups at General meetings (Parent Teacher Council, Theater Booster Club, Instructional Leadership Team meetings, Governing Board Meetings, etc.)  as well as reported out in our Annual LCAP Update in June. Highlights of the results include: a.) 83.4% of students Feel Safe at School.; b.) School Connectedness: 86.5% of Students are happy they attend this school & 91.1% of Students believe there is at least one teacher or adult at this school who really wants them to do well; c.) 98% of Students affirmed that they know the school rules for student behavior and what is expected of them; d.) On nine questions regarding character and values related to our character counts program: Overall 93 percent of students believe these values and character trails to be important to them.  Overall, the school climate survey reflects that RSA provides it's student body with a safe, positive school environment for learning.  One area of growth  that the Leadership Team is addressing is increasing the percentage of students who feel safe at school.   Included on the student survey was a follow up question for why and where  a student may not feel safe.  We are utilizing these detailed responses to implement changes that will improve areas of identified concerns.  Areas of concern will also be addressed and monitored in RSA's LCAP for 2019-2020.|2019-06-25||Met|2019
45104540132944|Redding STEM Academy|6|Parents and students (grades 3-8) took a 44 question climate survey in 2018 and again in 2019. A report was provided to the governing board during a meeting in May 2019. The results of the surveys were also shared with a parent group during an LCAP meeting in spring 2019. Results of the survey indicated growth in nearly every area from the spring 2018 survey to the spring 2019 survey. Students also took a survey and these results also demonstrated progress in every area of school connectedness. One strength was related to the school's pubic image. The survey indicated that the school's image in the community has improved and that it is becoming better known throughout the region. Another area of strength was shown in a question which related to the school's academic performance. There was a considerable improvement in parent perception on how the school was doing academically, which reflected an actual improvement in Smarter Balanced data. R-STEM was the highest performing school in Gateway USD in its third year.  Although things are improving at the school, the school climate survey from parents indicates that more is needed in terms of extra curricular activities. New robotics kits have been purchased to address improve this area, with the hope of having multiple teams to participate in upcoming regional robotics competitions.|2019-10-09|This year R-STEM sent a team of teachers and an administrator to a set of trainings called Positive Behavioral Interventions & Supports (PBIS). During these trainings, the team focused of the current school systems for student discipline and overall school culture.  Several changes were implemented as a result of these meetings. First, the school adopted a more restorative discipline system where expectations are clear throughout the school and students are led through a reflective process about their behaviors. The team developed some new ways to encourage students who were doing well including: rocket awards, a monthly attendance assembly, and goal setting that include in-class rewards so students can celebrate their growth. Additionally, the rules and expectations are being consistently referred to, retaught and reinforced by all adults on campus. Students know what it looks like to "be safe, be respectful, be responsible and be a problem solver". We are looking forward to the character this will build in our students and the positive effects it will have on our school climate.|Met|2019
36678430000000|Redlands Unified|6|A survey modeled after the Positive Behavior Intervention Support (PBIS) Climate Survey was developed to capture student perceptions about school safety, the physical environment of their schools, and school connectedness. A secondary school survey was administered to all 7th and 10th graders in the school district, as well as an elementary school version that was administered to all 4th graders. In total, 1,400 4th grade responses and 1,985 secondary student responses were collected.  Based on results from the student surveys, several themes were consistent: Students feel that there are adults at their school that are there to support them and help them emotionally and academically. A large percentage of students enjoy their school and feel safe, additionally, students feel that safety is a relative priority at their site. In general, students feel respected regardless of gender or race, but many feel that rules are applied differently to varying student groups. Improvements can be made at the secondary level regarding student voice. Lower percentages feel that students treat others well, and overall student behavior on campus seems to be a common concern for some. Finally, cleanliness on campus produced mixed results. Elementary- 91% of the students feel like their school Often has clear rules for behavior, and 79% of the students feel like they are Often rewarded for good behavior. 81% of the students Often feel safe, but only 56 of the students Often feel that students treat others well. 85% feel that there is an adult at their school that will help if they need it. 63% of the students feel like they Often like their school and 69% of the students feel like they fit in. 82% of the students feel that the school encourages them to do well. Finally, only 62% of the students feel their school is kept clean.  Secondary- 72% of the students agree that adults are visible on the campus during non-instructional time and promote a feeling of belonging among students, and 78% also feel that they are treated fairly regardless of age, gender, race, or cultural background. Student focus groups all felt that schools could do a better job of providing more information about safety issues and concerns, while 81% of the respondents agreed that the safety of the students is one of the school’s main concerns. 73% of the respondents felt that adults at their school support the social and emotional well-being of the students, however only 66% of the respondents felt that the adults apply the same rules to all students equally. Similarly, only 59% of the respondents felt that students feel listened to, represented, and know they have a voice. 77% of the respondents felt that they would report if a students was in danger to a school staff member. 72% of the respondents feel that the students and staff at the school are friendly and respectful to others and that the school makes an effort to know and understand the families and communities connected to the school.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19753410000000|Redondo Beach Unified|6|On an annual basis, the RBUSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The District either maintained or recorded an increase in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade students reporting a sense of safety and connectedness as measured by the CHKS. Our data shows that programs such Where Everybody Belongs (WEB) and Link Crew are assisting students when they transition to middle and high school. In partnership with Beach Cities Health District (BCHD), South Bay Families Connected (SBFC), and South Bay Children’s Health Center, we have a wealth of services and resources to meet the social-emotional needs of our students. In collaboration with the Redondo Beach Police Department (RBPD) and the Redondo Beach Fire Department (RBFD), all of our schools conduct fire, earthquake, lock down, and shelter in place drills to prepare students, staff, and parents for an actual emergency. In addition, our high school has a RBPD School Resource Officer on site and additional RBPD officers regularly visit campuses. Further, the results of the CKHS and CSPS are used by various school site and district committees to evaluate program effectiveness and to share best practices across RBUSD.  The District continues to find the following successes further defining the District's school climate: The District maintains a high level of student average daily attendance (ADA) at 96%;  Increasing high school graduation rate as seen in the CA School Dashboard; Increase in student safety and student connectedness to school as measured by the CHKS; Improved student attendance tracking to increase ability of school sites to provide student attendance interventions; Instituted a committee to understand and implement Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) within District schools; and Continued administration of the Cal-SCHLS surveys (CHKS, California School Parent Survey, California School Staff Survey) to receive actionable data to support student, parent, and staff services.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
23656152330413|Redwood Academy of Ukiah|6|A student survey is administered to students each spring. Quantitative questions parallel those on the parent survey. The survey fulfills the purpose of determining which school activities were seen by the students as needing improvement as well as determining how safe and comfortable students feel at school. Last year, student responses to survey questions varied. In response to the question about whether or not students felt safe at school, 95 percent of students responded that, yes, they felt safe and 5 percent answered with no. Additionally, 77 percent of student felt they could talk to staff about their needs, while 23 percent did not feel comfortable talking to staff about their needs. Within that 23 percent, many students noted that they did not feel comfortable opening up about their personal lives to teachers in general. In order to help get some data for the school's LCAP goal regarding students viewing integrity, compassion, and effort as important measures of success, students answered yes or no to a question about whether or not they thought kindness and honesty were encouraged at school. 84 percent of students answered that, yes, they felt kindness and honesty were encouraged, while 16 percent answered no. The majority of students showed a positive attitude toward the school. Anecdotal information was also elicited to identify information about the student’s relationship to staff and peers. As in years past, many of the students indicated that they thought the school was beneficial to them academically but that it would benefit from more fun activities. Some words students used to describe the school on their surveys included “academic,” “positive,” “best school yet,” “helpful,” “weird,” “frustrating,” “happy,” “exhausting,” “fun,” “amazing,” “welcoming” "encouraging," “great,” “stressful” “loving,” and “challenging.” There were no reports of bullying on the student surveys.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
41690050000000|Redwood City Elementary|6|The Climate Survey is facilitated by an independent 3rd party, Panorama Education and administered to students in grades 3-8. The questions were drawn from an archive of research-based questions developed by Panorama in broad theme areas that include: • School Belonging • School Climate • School Engagement • School Rigorous Expectations • School Teacher Relationships In addition RCSD administers the California Healthy Kids survey to students in grades 5 and 7. The survey results are shared with all stake holders and guide actions and services at school and district level. Annually, the results of the survey are shared with the RCSD governing board.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
12626790137653|Redwood Coast Montessori|6|RCM administers a modified CA Healthy Kids Survey to seek feedback from grades 3-4, 5-6, and 7-12. The key areas of the survey are school climate, safety, and student support. Based on the results of the survey, RCM students generally feel safe and respected while at school. Students reported a high degree of respect from staff. Student felt like they were listened to by staff and treated fairly.  RCM students did report being teased by peers. In response to this issue, RCM has expanded our health education classes to include grades K-3 with particular emphasis on consent and the power of NO!|2019-10-09||Met|2019
12768020124164|Redwood Preparatory Charter|6|We took the data from the survey back to Stakeholders and developed the LCAP to address the survey results.  Items included:  adding funding to match a USDA grant for the PA/Emergency Response (Bell) System and lighting, adding more cameras, continuing to develop our Tier two math interventions, developing meaningful differentiation (specifically for students that are achieving above grade level), offering a meal one five days a week for all free and reduced students. In addition, we are working to decrease our suspension rate. We will continue to implement PBIS, provide social/emotional support, and engage in restorative practices when appropriate. We must specifically decrease the rate of suspensions for students identified as Hispanic.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
21654250000000|Reed Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids survey is administered to students every other year. In 2018-19, RUSD 5th and 7th grade students took the survey again following the 2017-18 implementation. This decision was made to see if there were differences from one year to the next, and not only review data from the same group of students in 5th and 7th grade as the survey is administered every other year.  When reviewing results of feeling safe at school, 95% of 5th graders as compared to 96% the prior year responded agree or strongly agree.  For the same question, 83% of 7th graders as compared to 90% the prior year responded agree or strongly agree.   Asked whether students feel close to people at school, 64% of 5th graders compared to 65% the prior year responded with most or all of the time.  82% of 7th graders compared to 84% the prior year responded with most or all of the time.   91% of 5th graders compared to 87% the prior year believe teachers or other adults at school care about them most or all of the time.  71% of 7th graders compared to 82% the prior year believe teachers or other adults at school care about them most or all of the time.   82% of 5th graders compared to 85% the prior year agree/strongly agree they are happy to be at the school. 75% of 7th graders as compared to 87% the prior year agree/strongly agree they are happy to be at the school.   It is interesting to note the difference in responses between the two different cohort groups.  5th graders had a more common experience, and 7th graders variety more significantly in their perceptions than the students the year prior.    We are administering Youth Truth surveys to students, parents and teachers over a two week period beginning in late October to assess the climate and culture at our schools.  It will be important to review similarities or differences in responses of the groups noted above which would be current 6th and 8th grade students.  All district schools implement programs and curriculum to further social emotional learning, such as Kimochis, Second Steps, Mosaic, and Challenge Day, TEA club, and common sense media to name a few. Students learn how to resolve conflicts, as well as skills to prevent and stand up to bullying behaviors when they occur. Our students are supported by a school psychologist at each site that provides support and guidance services.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
10622650126292|Reedley Middle College High|6|The local climate survey is administered to all students in grades 9-12 at RMCHS.  This survey provides data on overall school climate and culture as it pertains to student safety, expectations for both behavior and academic achievement as well as expectations beyond graduation.  Through an analysis of the survey results, it is evident that RMCHS has been successful in building and maintaining a positive, safe environment for students.  For example, 90% of students report that the “school sets clear rules for behavior”.  In addition, 86% of students feel that “student behaviors in class allow the teachers to teach” and 92% feel that “teachers treat them with respect”.  Student perception of safety and connectedness as it relates to student and teacher behavior is consistent and positive, there is always room for growth.  For example, 84% of students share that “school is a place at which I feel safe”.  RMCHS strives for 100% of students feeling safe while on campus.  In addition, only 76% of students share there is “an adult at school that they can talk with if they need help”.  RMCHS would like every student to have at least one adult they can talk to.  Each of the data points are considered when creating school site plans around the continuous improvement of campus culture.    As a result of student survey analysis, RMCHS has implemented more school wide systems and structures to ensure that students feel safe when on campus.  In addition, we have developed a PBIS team who are tasked with providing behavior supports and recognition for students demonstrating our RMCHS Success Pillars.  In turn, this should provide an environment that is comfortable and safe for all students. As part of our PBIS implementation this year, we also plan to incorporate more student activities led by staff or activities that staff will participate in, improving student to adult connectedness.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
52716470000000|Reeds Creek Elementary|6|Over 90% students in grades 3rd -8th grade took the survey. Overall surveys showed that students feel our school is safe, clean, welcoming, and respectful and caring. Comments to improve upon were mostly about relationships between students. This is being addressed in the SEL curriculum|2019-10-17|We are focusing on Social Emotional learning which will improve school culture|Met|2019
16739320000000|Reef-Sunset Unified|6|Reef Sunset Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to measure student perceptions of School Safety and Connectedness. We particularly looked at specific questions from the survey based on relevancy. In 5th grade, 67% of students reported feeling close to people at school, 67% reported feeling happy to be at this school and 61% reported feeling safe. In 7th grade, 61% of students responded Agree or strongly agree to “I feel close to people at school.” 47% responded Agree or Strongly Agree to “ I am happy to be at this school” and 59% responded Agree or Strongly Agree with “I feel safe in my school.” In 9th grade, 55% of students responded Agree or Strongly agree to “I feel close to people at school.” 36% responded Agree or Strongly Agree to “I am happy to be at this school” and 47% responded Agree or Strongly Agree with “I feel safe in my school.”  Based on these reports, the site administration will participate in Professional Learning Community (PLC’s) to analyze the data, determine contributing factors to the data and plan next steps. There is a huge increase in High school students who feel close to someone at school, which was a positive unexpected outcome. This speaks to the efforts staff members are making to build positive relationships with students. Our areas of growth would be working with students at all grade levels to help them to be “happy to be at school.”  When looking at MTSS efforts at the middle school, we may want to expand these systems to other sites throughout the district.  This will help to build a multi-tiered system of support in academics, social-emotional and behavior.  By helping students feel supported in these areas we believe this will help to make school a more welcoming place to be, thus helping them to feel “happy to be at school.”|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647330101683|Renaissance Arts Academy|6|Developing healthy habits in all areas of life is a vital part of a well-rounded education. Consistent with RenArts Board Resolution 620, in coordination with RenArts’ Health and Safety plan, and as an integral part of RenArts’ educational design for supporting academic, artistic and personal success for all students, RenArts’ faculty actively promotes health and wellness for all members of the RenArts community, including in the following areas: Nutrition, Physical Education, Physical Health, Emotional Health, Behavioral Health, Environmental Health. Wellness practices are integrated into RenArts’ education program, fully coordinated with RenArts’ Mission and Goals, and implemented by the entire faculty team as a feature of RenArts’ ensemble-based school culture.  Renaissance Arts Academy’s coordinated approach to wellness provides students with planned learning experiences designed to develop both concepts and skills that affect physical health and fitness, movement concepts, artistic concepts, motor skill development, and safety in physical activity settings that are maintained in a safe and healthy learning environment.  Students at RenArts report feeling both connected and safe. By survey, RenArts students indicate the open-classroom model, whole school culture, and school-wide performances as a major part of feeling connected. All students participate in bi-annual shows and experience positive interactions across grade levels.  There is an observably coherent school-wide culture and behavior standards with no bullying. Students report feeling comfortable communicating concerns to faculty with appropriate and timely response. All students participate in regular safety, fire, earthquake, and other emergency drills, contributing to their perception of safety on campus. Emergency procedures are explained to students during the first month of the school year and policies are discussed at the beginning of every school year at the Student Compact Meetings in order to inform the parent community.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
09619780000000|Rescue Union Elementary|6|Each year, the Rescue Union School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5 and 7. The results of the 2018-2019 administration indicate that a majority of students feel connected to school and safe on campus. At the elementary level, 80% responded that they feel “highly” connected to their school and 87% reported that they feel safe while on campus all of the time or most of the time.  Results from the survey administered at the middle school level show that 67% feel connected to their school and 71% feel safe on campus.   Although many students expressed positive attitudes with regards to school climate, connectedness, and safety, this area remains a focus for the district and actions and services are listed in the LCAP to further improve climate and school culture.  To address this, the Rescue Union School District has prioritized Social Emotional Learning (SEL), adopted Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) and trained all district staff on Trauma Informed Practices and Restorative Approaches.  Furthermore, additional counselors have been hired to ensure that every school has at least 3 days per week of counseling services.  These services include targeted group sessions, individual counseling, and classroom lessons.  A behaviorist and behavior support aides have also been hired to address more significant student needs.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19647331937226|Reseda Charter High|6|Our LEA administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall semester, with 93% student participation. The following results pertain to school climate: 65% of our students feel safe at our LEA; 53% feel safe in the neighborhood around our LEA; 74% felt that if they told an adult at school that someone was bullying them the adult would try to help them; 70% said that they are happy at this school; and 60% said that they felt overall safe on our campus and 67% of our students feel that LGBTQ students are welcome on our campus.   The School Experience Survey concerning the student data regarding school climate was in four broad areas: bullying; connectedness; expectations for behavior; opportunities for participation and leadership; and safety. The responses in the areas of bullying, expectations for behavior, and opportunities for participation and leadership were generally high. The areas on connectedness and safety appear to be a challenge, with 60% of our students reporting that they feel safe in the surrounding community, and 61% overall connectedness.  In response to the results of our data analysis, we continue to implement Dr. Russell Quaglia's Student Voice and Aspirations Framework in the classroom and around campus, focusing on building students' sense of belonging and connectedness, working with them to set goals based on their aspirations. A mentoring program for at-risk students provides one-on-one adult mentoring, an Aspirations coordinator who monitors progress, and provides socio-emotional and academic support. This mentoring program has expanded to grades 9 and 10. In addition, we continue to have a Pupil Services and Attendance counselor who also holds a Master’s degree in social work, to provide additional supports to students with chronic absenteeism that affects their academic performance. In addition, our student body has implemented several initiatives around kindness, including "No One Eats Alone" picnic lunches on the quad, freshmen mentoring, National Domestic Violence Awareness Day, freshmen welcome, College Signing Day, Senior Rising, and integration of our students with special needs into all school extra curricular activities. In addition, our teachers and staff continue to receive professional development on students’ socio-emotional health and well-being, trauma-informed practices, and LGBTQ+ awareness.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
19647330131870|Resolute Academy Charter|6|Resolute Academy administered a survey to students. Students reported feeling like there was at least one adult on campus with whom they felt comfortable, but that they wanted more space to share and interact with one another. Resolute students also asked for an enrichment program. To that end, Resolute Academy implemented two additional courses this year: Art and High School Placement. Art gives our students a creative outlet and allows them to express themselves in a different capacity.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
36678500000000|Rialto Unified|6|School safety is a concern. As students progress from elementary to middle to high school, they feel less safe. For example, 80% of the 5th graders feel safe at school. However, only 43% of the 11th graders feel safe. The same trend occurs when asked if students feel like they are part of their school. 75% of the 5th graders feel a connection to their school whereas only 35% of the 11th graders feel that connection.  The data would suggest that as students move from elementary to secondary that there is less of a sense of safety and connectedness.  However, one of our immediate goals will be to increase participation of students completing to survey in order for the results to be valid.   The district has taken steps to address issues of safety and school connectedness at all levels. In order to address school climate, the district is focusing on implementing Social Emotional Learning (SEL) curriculum at each school site. This Tier 1, school-wide effort, would serve to provide instruction in social skills and emotional regulation. Furthermore, as part of our District Strategic Plan and, in alignment with our District Beliefs, the  “KINDNESS” Campaign is a commitment to create a district climate where each member of our community is valued and treated with respect.   Our “COURAGE” initiative, our Bully Prevention Campaign, is a comprehensive means to address bullying from the prevention standpoint and by training all stakeholders in what they can do to identify, prevent and/or intervene in bullying situations. The District has also created Middle School and High School Wellness Centers that are staffed with Pupil Personnel Services Credentialed staff, Therapeutic Behavior Service Providers and Emotional Health Therapists.  The Centers provide group and individual prevention and intervention services ( i.e.mentoring, mindfulness sessions, grief and loss, etc) for students.  With the challenges related to youth suicide, our district has taken steps to create Crisis Response Teams (CRT) at each school site. The teams will be trained in Suicide Prevention ASSIST Protocol and respond when a student is in need of support.  Finally, in collaboration with community stakeholders and parents, each of our school has developed a Safe School Plans and performs Safety Drills as appropriate by district guidelines.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
52716540000000|Richfield Elementary|6|Below is a sample of 7th Grade responses on the California Healthy Kids Survey administered in the spring of 2019.  "I feel close to people at this school = 85% reported yes. No students reported feeling unsafe or very unsafe.  100% of students reported that they had never been in a physical fight.  19% of 7th Graders answered yes to the question: "During the past 12 months, did you ever feel so sad or hopeless almost every day for two weeks or more that you stopped doing some usual activities?" RESD has seen improvement (16% decrease in "yes" responses) in this category from prior year. However, we continue our efforts to support students academically, social-emotionally, and behaviorally.  Examples of social-emotional supports include but are not limited to: implementing a new elective system that gives students more choice in course selection. RESD has also tripled the counseling budget to provide more 1x1 counseling opportunities, more large and small group peer to peer counselor moderated activities including but not limited to conflict resolution and anti-bullying education. RESD has also implemented "Toolbox" which aims to give students the tools to self-navigate challenging peer to peer or peer to adult interactions.|2019-06-26||Met|2019
54720820000000|Richgrove Elementary|6|Richgrove bi-annually gives out the California Healthy Kids Survey to get a glimpse into our school climate.  In the most recent survey it was determined that "school connectedness" scored moderately high with 5th grade grading at 62% and 7th at 65% feeling connected. In the area of "high expectations" it was also seen that 5th at 59% and 7th at 63% was trending well as most students felt that high expectations were being placed upon them by our school.  Another high mark at 76% and 77% was how our students felt about "safety" at our school.  We are happy to see that over three quarters of our students feel our campus is a safe place.  Our "truancy" score was low at 4% in the 5th grade which was great and was another great surprise. An area of concern for us is the low scores in the area of "academic motivation."  Our 5th grade students showed that only 39% of them were motivated academically at school and our 7th grade mark was at 33%. This is a direct reflection of our assessments as these are the percentages of "achieving" students when our results come back in.  In the area of "caring adult relationships" we discovered that our 5th grade students felt that only 58% of them had a caring adult in their life, while our 7th graders had only 35% of them feeling they had a caring adult in their lives.  This is a drastic change in only 2 years of schooling difference.  This information speaks to our current focus and professional development goals of building positive relationships with students. Our hope is with offering PD in this area and bringing in quest speakers we can help our staff see that positive relationships is one of the most critical pieces on a school campus. We also hope to work with students on "academic motivation" and want to use more positive reinforcement to foster more motivation for our students to do well.  We are also offering monthly parent meetings with our school psychologist and counselor to help parents learn what they can do to help their children to understand the importance of doing well in school and how to help them at home.  We are also offering parent academic nights to show parents ways to help with academics. In the area of "school safety" parents have asked for more safety measures in light of current societal events. This was ascertained in both parent meetings and end of year school survey. We have continued to install closed circuit cameras throughout campus and continue to fund to security officers that are on campus combined from 7:00 am to 10 pm.  We have also ordered more items needed for "lock down" situations and have increased safety practice situations.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
15635780000000|Richland Union Elementary|6|This measure addresses information regarding the school environment based on a local climate survey administered every year on the topics of school safety and connectedness.  The survey provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness to their local governing boards at a regularly scheduled meeting and reports to stakeholders and the public through the Dashboard.   The LEA used the data collected from the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 student surveys to determine areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers. One of the areas of strength is school connectedness.  There was an increase of 30% where students felt happy, part of the school, felt close to people, and connected to their school.  Students perceived schools as very safe or safe remained the same overall at 66%.  We recognize that at the elementary schools,  students felt safer than the middle school.  There was a decrease of 10% on student bullying or harassment.  Students felt that they experienced less harassment or bullying then the previous year.     Based on the information, the district learned that there is a need to continue services with School Social Workers at all four school sites to work on the prevention of Socio-Emotional factors that students reported through the survey.   There appears to be a continued need to address the school’s perception of safety with both 5th and 7th-grade students reporting only between 56-76% of the students to perceive school as safe.  Each year the school sites have added resources such as instructional aides, school social workers, and training for yard duty aides is expected to be addressed through the implementation of PBIS at all four school sites. An area of strength is the districts’ action to the meaningful feedback from students as a result of the interim student surveys to gauge school climate all year.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
07617960126805|Richmond Charter Academy|6|Through an internal wellness survey, over 90% of students at RCA feel physically safe on campus, although bullying is a point of concern with almost 30% of students reporting that they are bullied. Students also report that they feel emotional sad or depressed and have a difficult time controlling their anger.  This school year we have partnered with the Mindful Life Project that supports our school counselor in helping students handle their stress and anger through small group activities and mindfulness.  Our dean also does work around bullying prevention through presentations and communication with parents.  We continue to work on helping students effectively communicate with each other and their teachers.|2019-10-23|Starting the 2019-2020 school year, we will be utilizing data from Youth Truth, which provides data around school climate and students' overall experiences at school. We will be analyzing this data to uncover points of focus to help promote positive student experiences at school and with their learning|Met|2019
07617960129643|Richmond Charter Elementary-Benito Juarez|6|Through an internal wellness survey, over 70% of students at BJE feel physically safe on campus, although bullying is a point of concern with almost 30% of students reporting that they are bullied. Students also report that they feel emotional sad or depressed and have a difficult time controlling their anger.  This school year we have partnered with the Mindful Life Project that supports our school counselor in helping students handle their stress and anger through small group activities and mindfulness.  Our dean also does work around bullying prevention through presentations and communication with parents.  We continue to work on helping students effectively communicate with each other and their teachers.|2019-10-23|For the 2019-2020 school year, we are utilizing the surveys from Youth Truth, a national non-profit that help to provide schools with feedback from staff, students, and families to improve schools for all stakeholders.|Met|2019
07617960110973|Richmond College Preparatory|6|RCP administers a school climate survey to students, families, and staff.   The Student Success Team monitors students at risk of behavioral issues and provides student and family interventions as needed.    Our 3-page parent survey includes the following questions regarding parent engagement in their child’s school:     Are parents/family members included in planning school activities?  Do I feel empowered to play a meaningful role in decision-making at my school? Do I feel comfortable approaching teachers about my child’s progress?   95% of parent surveys reported an overall positive school experience; 125 out of 132 parent surveys returned reported strong agreement or agreement that RCP provided a positive school climate.   Each stakeholder group (parents/families/students, the RCP Board of Directors, administrators, teachers, and staff) both confirmed the value of existing services and practices as well as recommended additional services and actions. The following are recommendations from the stakeholder groups that were incorporated into the Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP):   • Continue the professional development for teachers and instructional aides, including the focus on readers' and writers' workshops, cyber bullying and the use of technology. • Provide additional professional development for instructional aides. • Provide more support for the program for English Learners. • Provide more professional development and support for teachers on English Language Development (ELD). • Provide more support for students performing below grade level, including a more specific, targeted intervention program and    more after­-school intervention, and coordinate it with other interventions. • Increase parent participation opportunities. • Ensure college trips are kept as part of the study trip program.  Parents and community confirmed the value and importance of:  the extended learning program, in particular the after-school program; the use of technology in the classroom; existing professional development and Directors' role; and the benchmark assessment program; and the positive school climate at RCP.   We have continued implementing a weekly class that specifically addresses peer relationships as well as other topics that concern middle school students.  We have had a counselor and are working with the Mindful Life group to create and facilitate peer groups to prevent bullying. To address bullying across grade levels, we continued our Mindful Life program at all grade levels and increased the amount of professional development for staff and workshops for parents/guardians on this topic.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
18641700000000|Richmond Elementary|6|According to the 2019 California Healthy Kids Survey, the following averages the percentile of students in grades five through eight that chose that they 'strongly agree' or 'agree' with each of the following statements. . School Connectedness: 73% Academic Motivation: 83% Caring Adult Relationships: 73% High Expectations: 82% Meaningful Participation: 49% Parent Involvement at School: 74% School Perceived as Safe:  84% Our areas of deficits were in two areas:  Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness and the perception/use of vaping.  Based on the results we reached out to two people who were experienced in these areas.  Jessica Solomon and James Hall held a parent meeting to discuss both suicide awareness and the dangers of vaping.  This meeting was attended by many parents.  Both Jessica and James also addressed and educated individual students in classrooms of 6th-8th grade students to discuss the dangers in these areas.|2019-01-10|We had 105 parents submit a local parent survey in April of 2019. This is a 6% increase from last year. According to the survey: This school promotes academic success for ALL students: 96%-Yes This school treats all students with respect: 92% - Yes This school keeps me well-informed about school activities: 96% - Yes|Met|2019
15756301530500|Ridgecrest Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
36678680000000|Rim of the World Unified|6|DATA: Rim of the World Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 in 2016 and 2017. The survey is typically administered every other year but due to low participation for the first administration we decided to give it again in 2017. The 2017 survey resulted in more student participation going from to 49% to 75%. In 2017 we administered the staff survey as an added measure of school climate. Survey questions are available for parents, staff, and the community to review on the district website. The results of these surveys serve to measure the district’s progress on state priority six, School Climate.   MEANING: The survey results were reviewed with staff, students, LCAP stakeholders’ group and the school board and used to highlight areas of strength and needed improvement. Students feeling of wellbeing, connectedness, and caring adult relationships was higher at the elementary level than at the secondary level. Areas of lower scores included high expectations and meaningful participation. Elementary students indicated feeling safe at school while secondary indicated experiencing more concerns about harassment, bullying, rumors or lies being spread, and feelings of sadness. Other areas measured include school safety, disciplinary environment, life-time substance abuse, and mental physical health. One of our barriers has been survey participation rates. We attribute much of this to the length of the survey and time commitment to participate, as well as the distance between each administration.   RESPONSE TO THE DATA: In response to our concern related to low survey participation rates, we have selected a new survey system to be used in the 2019-20 school year. The KELVIN system provides short questions periodically throughout a student work period. These quick check-ins are called “pulses” and are designed to provide data, which is precise and actionable in real time, like taking your own “pulse”. They are opportunities to check in with kids frequently to get a “pulse” on the current climate, providing more real time actionable data to school staff. We are excited about the possibilities of this kind of dynamic data, in order to be more responsive to student needs. We are excited about gathering reliable and relevant data collected in an ongoing manner rather than only gathering climate data every other year. The KELVIN surveys will replace the administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for 2019-20.|2019-10-17|Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) are implemented at each site within the district as a means of addressing culture and climate, suspension rates and chronic absenteeism, which are all components of the California School Dashboard. Our dashboard data indicates a need to increase alternative means of correction strategies, rather than suspension, as a way of responding to students when expectations are violated. We have partnered with local community mental health providers to offer services to students in need of support. Rim of the World is committed to creating positive learning environments for all students, staff, and parents.|Met|2019
49708960102525|Rincon Valley Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was last administered in the Spring of 2018.  At that time, 78% of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported feeling safe at school "all" or "most" of the time. Rincon Valley Union School District administers a local student survey annually. In 2018-19, 81% of elementary students and 81% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school "always" or "often." In addition, 84% of elementary students and 83% of middle school students reported that they are "always" or "often" happy to be at this school. The school district decided to continue providing professional development for more social emotional programs for staff to implement.  The 7th and 8th grade charter school also implemented the Stop It program for students to have a safe way to report incidents to staff.  We have heard from staff and parents for the ongoing need for counselors at our school sites to support the development of social emotional skills.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
49708960000000|Rincon Valley Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was last administered in the Spring of 2018.  At that time, 78% of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported feeling safe at school "all" or "most" of the time. Rincon Valley Union School District administers a local student survey annually. In 2018-19, 81% of elementary students and 81% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school     "always" or "often." In addition, 84% of elementary students and 83% of middle school students reported that they are "always" or "often" happy to be at this school. The school district decided to continue providing professional development for more social emotional programs for staff to implement.  The 7th and 8th grade charter school also implemented the Stop It program for students to have a safe way to report incidents to staff.  We have heard from staff and parents for the ongoing need for counselors at our school sites to support development of social emotional skills.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
15735440000000|Rio Bravo-Greeley Union Elementary|6|School Climate data was gathered in February 2019 via the LCAP Student Stakeholder Survey. All students in grades 3-8 participated. The district does participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey as well annually however; our own survey allows the district the addition of questions and input portions to meet the needs of out district demonstrating local control and accountability.   In measurement of valid perceptions of school safety and connectedness the survey concluded: - Over 96.5% of students believe their school provides them with a good education - Over 86% of students believe their school prepared them for future college or career paths - Over 83% of students believe English Learners are being taught to speak, read and write in  English as quickly as possible  - Over 93% of students believe their school provides extra curricular activities - Students state they have significant access to: Math, ELA, Social Studies, the Arts, Health/PE,  and Technology|2019-10-14||Met|2019
12630080000000|Rio Dell Elementary|6|The district gave the healthy kids survey to students in the 2017-2018 school year, and will give it again in 2019-2020 school year.  Students overall felt that they were safe when at school and felt supported by their teacher. Students felt that teachers were going out of their way to help students. The majority of the students reported having very few days where they have physical activity where they begin to sweat. The data from the survey was shared with the board as well as teachers. Middle school teachers over the summer looked at the PE program and how we could get students more engaged and involved in exercising. Students this year will rotate for PE each week and have stations such as cardio, volleyball, basketball, kickball, and tennis as well as incorporating more health and fitness into pe class.|2019-11-13|In regards to safety of the school campus, the school just installed fencing along the back side of the campus so that during the school day the gates will be locked all visitors to use the front entrance of the school and check in with the main office. This has helped significantly with the safety and security of the campus and the students.|Met|2019
56725610000000|Rio Elementary|6|Rio School District continues to administer the Youth Truth Survey which is a student-stakeholder tool that measures student perceptions which are linked to academic outcomes. Through the Youth Truth surveys, we hear from everyone. And just like a vote, everyone’s survey gets equal weight. So a 7th grade student’s survey has equal weight to the ASB President or the site Principal.And with Youth Truth surveys we can track ratings over time and compare across and within schools. Meaning we can see what’s typical for other California schools (and other high poverty schools, schools that are more similar to ours). And we can compare how different groups experience the same school and by having this data we can make decisions to improve the educational process for our students. YouthTruth’s family survey translates parents’ and guardians’ perspectives into useful data and insights. Parents and guardians provide feedback on the following key themes. 1) School Culture. 2) School Safety 3) Engagement & Empowerment 4) Relationships 5) Communication & Feedback 6) And finally, Resources  Rio School District continues to seek feedback from certificated and staff staff members. Both instructional and support staff - have the opportunity to provide their feedback with regards to the following core themes: 1) Culture & Communication 2) Engagement & Empowerment 3) Relationships 4) And Communication & Feedback Relationships, culture, and engagement align across the three groups and data is reviewed with all stake holders as we continue to improve the school climate and continue to provide a welcoming and caring school environment.  Results from the surveys show a positive trend as students feel very positive about their educational experiences and where we see the greatest growth, 1) Most adults in this school treat students with respect. 2) Discipline in this school is fair. 3) Most teachers believe that students can get a good grade if you try Based on the yearly survey, school climate and creating a welcoming school environment rates above 80% positive from "student's surveys".|2019-06-26||Met|2019
39685850122580|Rio Valley Charter|6|Annually, Rio Valley Charter School surveys all stakeholders, including its K-12 students. A majority of the questions in the surveys are directly aligned to the 8 Basic State Priorities including school climate. Data from the survey and stakeholders meetings are reviewed and discussed. High priority status pertaining to student performance, attendance, school facilities, and school climate and course offerings are taken regarding the school’s needs and areas for growth. This information is compiled and the district LCAP is written based from these identified needs. The final plan is provided to the Board of Directors for approval at a regularly scheduled Board meeting in June.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
39686500000000|Ripon Unified|6|Information from five key questions on the student LCAP survey showed a strong sense of school safety and connection.  Students responded to, “I can talk openly with my teachers when I have difficulties.”  72.09% of 4th-5th graders, 57.11% of 7th-8th graders, and 51.27% of 10th-11th graders replied, “Yes.”  (No significant changes)  Next, they were asked if their teacher made learning fun.  87.6% of 4th-5th graders, 81.66% of 7th-8th graders, and 74.2% of 10th-11th graders “Agreed” or “Strongly Agreed”.  (Significant increases in 7-11)  They were asked if teachers and staff encourage them to produce their best work.  92.25% of 4th-5th graders, 94.7% of 7th-8th graders, and 88.85% of 10th-11th graders “Agreed” or “Strongly Agreed”.  (Significant increase in 10-11)  Then, they were asked if they understood the importance of coming to school every day, so they didn’t miss instruction.  91.67% of 4th-5th graders, 94.68% of 7th-8th graders, and 93.91% of 10th-11th graders “Agreed” or “Strongly Agreed”.  (Significant increase in all grades)  Finally, students were asked if they felt safe at school.  85.65% of 4th-5th graders, 87.39% of 7th-8th graders, and 71.34% of 10th-11th graders “Agreed” or “Strongly Agreed”.  (Slight increases in grades 4-8 and slight decrease in 10-11)  Please note that surveys are given early in the year.  Therefore, students’ perspectives may include experiences from the prior year. Under the MTSS umbrella, staff has been trained at each school in Restorative Practices.  Restorative circles are being used more and more often.  Additional trainings have and will continue to occur.  All school site staffs have received training in Character Strong.  Full implementation is occurring at two sites, while initial implementation is happening at all the other schools.  The LCAP includes actions/services for attendance programs at all sites.  Sites use their resources for continual improvement.|2019-10-07|132 4th graders took the survey (13.1%), along with 126 5th graders (12.5%).  231 7th graders took the survey (22.92%), along with 205 8th graders (20.34%).  All elementary sites were represented for both grade spans.  201 10th graders took the survey (19.94%) and 113 11th graders (11.21%) took the survey from the high schools.|Met|2019
19647330136994|Rise Kohyang Elementary|6|Rise Kohyang Elementary School opened on August, 2019 and is in its first year of operation.  To assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school plans to administer a verbal end of year survey.  The survey will be administered to student focus groups from each kindergarten class at Rise Kohyang Elementary School in spring 2020.  Students will be asked four questions regarding their feelings about their teacher, school activities and whether they feel safe at school.  Students will be asked to respond to each question and provide examples.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330133868|Rise Kohyang High|6|RKHS - to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019.  School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 70% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average English Language Learner -15%  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 54% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average N/A  Use District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student Surveys for 2018-2019|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330124222|Rise Kohyang Middle|6|RKMS - to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019.  School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 66% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average Black or African American -28% Receives Special Education Services -19%  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 52% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average Black or African American -10%  Use District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student Surveys for 2018-2019|2019-10-28||Met|2019
09618380129965|Rising Sun Montessori|6|On March 27th 2019, RSMS families were sent a school wide climate survey which focused on the LCAP’s 8 state priorities.  This survey specifically identified the two items to be addressed here, namely the degree to which students feel safe at RSMS and the degree to which students feel connected to RSMS. The responses to these two questions formulated identical results: 65.6% of parents either agreed or strongly agreed that their children felt safe at RSMS and that their students felt connected to their school. A further 25% of parents agreed that their students felt safe and connected. These numbers total to over 90% of our students feeling both safe and connected to their school.   In order to address our need for continuous improvement, RSMS administration and staff (both certificated and classified) met to identify ways in which we could further build on our strong sense of community, safety, inclusion and belonging.   The result of this time together was the doubling of community events (from 5 in 2018-19 to over 10 in 2019-20), the addition of new Parent Committee members, and the ongoing commitment to building a school-wide community where students feel like valued members of their school community.|2019-05-14||Met|2019
09100900930131|Rite of Passage|6|A School Climate Survey was administered to students at all three sites in Spring, 2019.  The School Climate Survey (a local instrument not associated with the Healthy Kids Survey) provided information in multiple areas and the following most closely aligned with the provisions of this priority.   According to the Climate Survey (administered to grades 9-12): 75% of students indicated that “Most of the teachers at the school know me” 80% of students indicated “I feel like I am welcome in this school” 78% of students indicated “I feel safe at school” In response to the results, efforts are being made to include students in activities that provide them with choice and the opportunity to participate in activities outside of the classroom more often.    Staff is going to receive additional training in the Road to Success Academy model so that they are better equipped to offer structures in the classroom that align with the social-emotional needs of the students.    Another survey will be conducted in Spring 2020 and results will be compared to measure growth.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
57726940131706|River Charter Schools Lighthouse Charter|6|Overall, the 2019 stakeholder surveys showed that staff, parents, and students held positive views of Lighthouse Charter School. Staff, in particular, reported much higher levels of satisfaction in 2018 compared to previous years. However, stakeholders also had concerns in specific areas and gave suggestions for how Lighthouse could improve. It is useful to explore the questions and categories in which the school received less enthusiastic responses to identify potential areas for growth with PTC, Site Council, and ELAC committee, in addition to LCAPP round-table groups.    Parents and students both were enthusiastic about the academic program at Lighthouse this year, especially regarding the effectiveness of the project-based learning and students being adequately challenged by their instructors. This positive response to the school’s academic program compares favorably to reviews from 2018. Parents have continued to express satisfaction that academic needs of their child are being met. In fact, some parents seemed concerned that the pacing and difficulty of the material might be too intense, but tethered their statements with the caveats that their children are excelling and haven’t complained about their classwork. Moreover, it appears Lighthouse has met the demands for differentiated instruction as parents lauded multiple teachers’ abilities to challenge their children on an individual basis. Focus will be  investigate the demand for increased STEM education as some parents believe it may be lacking in the current curricula.   In terms of student requests, the 2018 improvement of student opportunities to study fine arts and history holds strong. Many students declared art, music, or history as their favorite subjects and several students indicated they enjoyed their math course. In 2019, the main request from students was for less strictness from staff.   School Environment & Working Conditions  As with the academic program, parents and students at Lighthouse Charter School were very pleased with the school’s culture and environment. The vast majority of parents agreed their children enjoyed going to school and thought that the various offices on campus were pleasant and responsive. Additionally, students in the younger grades felt the school rightly emphasized respect and felt safe around all members of the staff.  Focus in 2019-20 is to utilize community partnerships (e.g. the YMCA or Boys and Girls Club) and/or create new student organizations. Students have expressed an interest in computer courses for all three years; perhaps this can meet that need outside the classroom.|2019-10-07|Student Survey: Kindergarten – 2nd Grade  My School: • 95+% of students: 1. Feel safe at school. 2. School practices emergency procedures. 3. School teaches me to respect others. • 90+% of students:  1. School is clean. 2. Most of the students are well-behaved at my school. 3. I want to come to this school next year.  My Classroom: • 95+% of students: 1. Lots of supplies in my classroom. 2. Students in my class work in groups. • 90+% of students:  1. Parents and other grown-ups help in my classroom.   Teacher and Principal Effectiveness:  • 95+% of students: 1. My teacher cares about me. 2. My teacher expects me to do my best. 3. My teacher is fair to all students. 4. I know what I’m supposed to learn in class. 5. I am learning a lot in class. 6. Administration cares about me. • 90+% of students:  1. I can talk to my teacher when I have a problem.    3rd Grade – 6th Grade My School: • 85+% of students: 1. I would recommend my school to a friend. • 80+% of students (17% “did not apply”): 1. Administration is fair when determining consequence for negative behaviors. • Below 80% of students:  1. (75%) Feel safe at school. 2. (61%) My school treats everyone fairly. 3. (79%; 15% “did not apply”) Administration cares about me. 4. (76%) I can talk to Administration when I have a problem.  Teacher Effectiveness: • 90+% of students:  1. My teacher expects me to do my best. • 85+% of students: 1. I have opportunities to talk and work with my classmates.  • 80+% of staff: 1. My teacher|Met|2019
34674130000000|River Delta Joint Unified|6|In February 2019, students in Grade 7, 9, and 11 will complete the California Health Kids Survey. The data will be reviewed and analyzed by district and school personnel. The findings and goals from that analysis will be shared with parents and the RDUSD Board of Trustees for further feedback. This feedback will assist in refining the goals and the associated action steps that are necessary to achieve those goals. The following is a summary of the survey results in relation to the students' perceptions of school safety and connectedness from the 2018 CHKS survey. School Connectedness overall was rated at 87.3%, which was an increase from the previous year at 81.8%. School Safety was rated at 57%, which was a decrease from 58.3% in the previous year. While the minimum requirement for the LCFF School Climate Priority Area is to administer a student survey capturing their connectedness to their schools and their feeling of safety on campus, in Spring 2018, RDUSD administered a local climate and culture survey to students in Grade 4-12, certificated staff and parents. The following school culture and climate themes are included: Climate of Support for Academic Learning, Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules, and Norms, Safety, and Sense of Belonging/School Connectedness. Safety Overall results show that parents have the most favorable ratings at 93%, as compared to the students at 55%. After disaggregating the school safety data, we were able to discover that our students are rating school safety lowest based on their feelings about interactions they are having with peers on social media. Based on this student-provided information, RDUSD contracted with Top Youth Speakers to give a presentation called My Life Online to our Grade 4-8 students on the benefits and detriments of social media. They also provided our parents with a Live Parent Webinar that will deliver the same information and crucial message but will also provide helpful parenting tips and answer any specific questions they may have regarding parenting in our social media-riven world. The teachers were given access to a series of lesson plans related to the proper use of social media and facilitated those between January and of May 2019.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
39103970127134|River Islands Technology Academy II|6|River Islands Technology Academy II annually administers both a Parent and Student survey to ask about connectedness to the school.  The survey is done in the spring through a Google survey here at school for the students, and through a link sent by email to the parents to complete at home.  The Student survey for the 18-19 school year are below:  2018-19 LCAP Student Survey Results  I like coming here to River Islands Technology Academy for school....  47%: All of the time; 49% Most of the time; 4% None of the time  I feel like my teachers help me when I have questions about my school work...  60% All of the time; 38% Most of the time; 2% None of the time  I feel like people care about me at River Islands Technology Academy...  46% All of the time; 48% Most of the time; 5% None of the time  When I need help, or have a problem, there are people who I can go to at River Islands Technology Academy...  51% All of the time; 40% Most of the time; 9% None of the time  We have also administered the Health Kids Survey(HKS) to our 7th grade students, and will do so again this fall (2019).  The results of both the Local survey and the HKS are used to help determine Actions and Services in our LCAP.  The results of the survey are shared with our Governing Board at a regularly scheduled meeting each spring and with other stakeholders as part of the LCAP development process.  The Local survey has not allowed us to disaggregate data, other than by grade span.  This is something that we will look at prior to administering the survey this spring to see if there is a way to include this component to provide us additional information when we look at grade span, gender, and ethnicity as a part of the results.  We also will look at adding more safety related questions to take a look at student perceptions of the school campus and school events.  The data that has been collected through this survey continues to be positive, and we think this is tied to the training we do with teachers about the student/teacher relationships that is such a large part of our culture.  There is a small percentage of students who answered the questions in the negative, and we continue to explore ways that we can reach all students to make sure that they feel valued, safe and welcome here at school.  By having the opportunity to disaggregate the data next year, hopefully we can better determine if there is a group(s) of students who are not feeling connected to so we can specifically address those areas with them.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
28662666113302|River Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
49708470119750|River Montessori Elementary Charter|6|Student Satisfaction surveys indicate that 95% of students feel that RMCS is a peaceful or very peaceful school.  98% of student respondents state that their Teacher/Montessori Guide is very or mostly helpful, and 98% of students report that their Teacher/Montessori Guide is always or mostly peaceful. Key learnings and areas of strength include a peaceful school climate and positive student-teacher relationships.  Areas of growth include continued curriculum for understanding of self and others, inclusion, flexible mindset, social emotional development, self-regulation, communication and peacemaking skills.  Supporting families in how to support this at home and in the greater community for students through parent events. An equity focus group to bring awareness of challenges for our community and consequently our students as well as to bring productive communication and determine supports for inclusion and for those in need of support.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
23656150115055|River Oak Charter|6|River Oak Charter School has implemented a comprehensive set of health, safety, and risk management policies. Parents feel safe sending their students to school. On an average 97% of parents responding to our annual "teacher effectiveness survey" gave the highest affirmative ranking to the statement, " My child feels safe to learn at River Oak Charter School." There has been no expulsions from our school. The school has adopted policies to insure the health and safety of the students including emergency procedures, earthquakes, fire and campus lockdown drills|2019-10-21||Met|2019
56105610122713|River Oaks Academy|6|Our annual survey shows that families consider our School Climate as one of the key reasons they are joining our program. ROA provides a safe place for each student. There are no discipline issues, as we have not had any expulsions or suspensions. Our teachers form close relationships with each one of their assigned students and beyond. Our academic rigor is balanced with incredible support through one-on-one tutoring; group tutoring; daily study hall and academic labs; workshops and classes and more. We offer all kinds of developmental and emotional support, including a life hacks class, our college and career seminar, leadership groups and one-on-one support. We are also building an annual wellness event, where we will introduce our families and students to mental and emotional wellness for the whole child. Our school culture is all inclusive, since many of our students chose to join ROA due to the non-inclusive culture at their previous school. We continuously work on offering more support in all areas and getting our culture and support to move from very good to great. We give our students regular forums for input and thoughts, offer an open door policy and encourage their input and participation in decision making at all levels. We pride ourselves in the fact that we tailor our program to our students' needs and continuously work on improvements and implementation of additional ways to add to that. Our staff has an incredible passion to work with and guide our students and this passion contributes greatly to the overall school climate. Staff creates connections and relationships with their students and these relationships help to bring out the best in our students and help them in their work to overcome their obstacles.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
33103300110833|River Springs Charter|6|During the 2018-19 school year, students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). Student survey results were reported to the school in elementary (grades 3-5), middle school (grades 6-8), and high school (9-12) results groups.    The school analyzed survey results and identified Glows (areas of strength) and Grows (identified areas for growth).  The Glows were: (1) 82%  of students believe all students can learn, (2) 93% believe school is a safe learning environment, (3) 85% of students do not use alcohol or marijuana.  Identified Grows include: Students reported that teachers need more support and training on handling difficult behaviors, students need more counseling support at school, and some students report a feeling of sadness or hopelessness sometimes.   The MTSS leadership had a data analysis meeting and highlighted the summary data for the student center, regarding school culture and student well-being. MTSS administrators sent the full report to the principal and the administrative director of Professional development and made recommendations.  The school is in year 1 of implementing Habits of Success to address the ""Springs Has Heart"" goal and emphasize the importance of addressing the social emotional needs of our students as well as academics.  In 2017-18, as part of the 2018 LCAP Stakeholder survey, all students were asked to complete 25 questions from the School Climate module of the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS).  Response options were: yes, Neutral/I don’t know, or no.  Positive perception questions focus on topics such as learning in a program that they like, with helpful teachers and interesting activities, within a safe and connected environment.  Student in grades 3-12 were surveyed.  Students responded positively to 77% of the questions, indicating an overall positive perception of the school’s climate.  The two statements with the highest ratings were: “I get along with people who are different than me,” and “I think students enjoy doing things with each other.”  The two statements with the lowest positive ratings were: “I think students pay attention in class,” and “I think students usually follow the rules at school.”  These and more detailed results were reported to the Governing Board during the LCAP process in June 2019.   The school plans to include a segment of the CHKS again in the 2020-21 school year, meeting the State Priority 6 requirements.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37681893731072|River Valley Charter|6|Twice a year (once per semester) RVCS administers a survey for all stakeholders (students, parents, teachers, staff) which focuses on the local climate of the school site and instruction. The surveys closely align with both WASC and LCAP goals, and are the basis of the Action Plan and strategic planning for each following year. Currently, the greatest identified area of need is that of the school facilities.  Facilities are and will remain an area of importance in terms of improvement and general school atmosphere at River Valley. As the school grows and ages, our campus not only needs to expand, but undergo more and more maintenance each year. One of the most oft reported areas of need from stakeholders is the school grounds. For the 2018­-19 school year, the focus has been on exterior spaces and maintenance. Feedback from stakeholders and school visitors has indicated that we are doing very well in terms of updating and maintaining our campus.  River Valley takes pride in the familial and community atmosphere our stakeholders and campus provide. Our campus is small, and we do not have the luxury of a large maintenance crew. We are continually improving the campus, prioritizing projects in order to provide a safe, clean, and welcoming academic environment. We feel that we have successfully prioritized our facilities improvements in order to best serve our students. Facilities improvement will remain a continual goal as the school is growing, technology is advancing, and our buildings are aging. The actions (not exclusive to this report/LCAP) that were fulfilled during the 2018/19 school year effectively helped River Valley to meet the goal of providing school facilitates that are safe, welcoming, and up to date.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
50755560113852|Riverbank Language Academy|6|Riverbank Language Academy administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to seventh grade students in spring 2018.  Under school climate, most students reported a high connectedness to school and also having high academic motivation.  Student safety was rated high and they generally reported feeling safe at school with only a small percentage of seventh graders feeling unsafe.  The majority of students reported one to zero incidents of violence or verbal harassment and also no low incidents of bullying behaviors at school.  Additionally, very few students reported substance use; including tobacco, alcohol, and drugs. Most notably, students reported mental and physical health-being an area of concern with 24 percent of students having feelings of helplessness and sadness. The results from these findings resulted in the school hiring a School Counselor to support students social-emotional well-being. In addition, the school continues educating students on anti-drug and tobacco programs, promoting high standards for academics and college awareness while maintaining a positive learning environment that is conducive to learning.|2019-10-16|Part of RLA's Multi-Tiered Systems of Support Plan to improve school climate is the integration of PBIS (Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports).  The school is in the second year of utilizing PBIS strategies to support school climate and connectedness.  Additionally, students in 5th and 7th grade will be administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in spring 2020.|Met|2019
50755560000000|Riverbank Unified|6|The Riverbank Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids survey in the spring of 2019 to students in the 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade students.  Students at Adelante High School, a continuation school also took the survey.  Results showed a limited sample of fifth-grade students had taken part.  While the data was collected correctly, we should note that a total of 29 fifth graders completed the survey.  Of the fifth-grade respondents, the most positive aspect of the survey was that they felt the teachers care about them, thought they were capable and had high expectations for them to learn.  When compared to the previous survey, the percentage of students who felt teachers had high expectations for them rose 13% and teachers caring increased 9%.  Overall, the fifth-grade students felt teachers treated them with respect with 93% answering favorably.  Students for the most part feel safe at school with 79% reporting they were feeling safe up 2% from the last survey.   Seventh grade students in Riverbank felt that their teachers wanted them to do their best.  Academic motivation was at 70% with school connectedness reported to be 43%.  Of significance is that 23% did not feel they had meaningful engagement at school related to making choices and decisions.  One other item of note for the 7th grade that is being addressed through additional emotional supports at the school site is that 14% stated that they had considered suicide and 39% had feelings of sadness.  In terms of feeling safe at school, the 7th and 9th grade students felt less safe at school than the 11th grade and Adelante High School (AHS) Students.  41% of 7th graders felt safe or very safe while 42% had no feeling either way.  42% of 9th grade students felt safe or very safe while 43% had no feeling either way.  11th grade at RHS and students at AHS felt safe at higher levels.  Overall those students felt safe or very safe at school with 62% for Riverbank High and 68% at Adelante.  0% of AHS students reported feeling unsafe while 6% of RHS students in 11th grade reported feeling unsafe. At the high school level, we found that students at the continuation high school had high levels of connectedness and academic motivation.  80% of Adelante's respondents felt motivated academically at the continuation school while 67% of 11th graders at Riverbank High School experienced academic motivation.  Students at the continuation high school also felt they had meaningful participation at a higher rate than the comprehensive high school.  Feelings of hopelessness and sadness were higher at Adelante at 45% and at 33% for 9th grade along with 28% for the 11th grade at Riverbank High School.  Meaningful participation at school, which relates to students feeling they have a choice and a voice in decisions, was relatively low at all high school grade level groups.  In general, the majority of students responded that they do not get to help decide activities and rules at school.|2019-11-05|In addition to the Healthy Kids Survey, the district has recognized a demonstrated need for additional student support in the area of mental health.  To address the growing needs in this area along with the increasing number of students coming to school with significant behavioral issues, a mental health therapist has been hired to support students, families and staff.|Met|2019
10754080000000|Riverdale Joint Unified|6|RJUSD conducted an annual survey in the spring of 2019 that was offered to all students within the 4th-12th grade range of a K-12 school district.  Almost 700 students took part in the 10 question survey. These student perceptions are essential to the awareness and understanding of current programs, trends and philosophies while presenting insight into the shaping of the next academic year.   Key findings from the survey relate to the district’s position of maintaining and promoting an element of school safety for each and every student.  While most students find their campus clean and in good condition 6%  felt vandalism/graffiti was present.   21.9% of students, down from 25% the previous year, experienced a form of harassment or bullying.  In addition, 20.6% of students expressed that they perceive a level of illegal drug and alcohol use exists on their campus.   School Engagement and Supports were also reported in the survey with 33.6% of students being academic motivated and 63.6% telling that adults had caring relationships for their well being.  While the level of engagement and support is promising, RJUSD realizes the necessity to provide additional levels to improve school safety and increase student connectedness.  Actions to address challenges identified through the disaggregated data include: the continuation of the present number of school safety personnel, the continuation of district psychologist 5 days a week, continuation of PBIS program and continuation of counseling services across the district.  These items can be found in the RJUSD’s 2019-2020 LCAP.  Student input/perceptions  is essential to supporting student learning and RJUSD looks forward to the survey process as it conveys voices, concerns and trends that are used to direct and support the District’s goals found in the Local Control and Accountability Plan.  The District’s goals center on Student Learning, Professional Growth, Climate & Culture and Community Engagement.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
33103300000000|Riverside County Office of Education|6|RCOE Alternative Education administered the California Healthy Kids Survey on school connectedness and school safety.|2019-10-02|Alternative Education utilized the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to measure school connectedness and school safety. The Community School total reported as moderate (48%) and high (29%) on the 2018-­2019 CHKS on School Connectedness was 79%, which was an increase from the 70% in 2017­2018. The Court School total reported as moderate (45%) and high (25%) on the 2018­-2019 CHKS on School Connectedness was 70%, which was the same result in 2017­-2018, however, it did not meet the expected growth of 5%. The Community School total percent of students responding that they felt very safe or safe declined from 54% in 2017-­2018 to 51% in 2018­-2019. The Court School total percent of students responding that they felt very safe or safe was 54% in 2018-­2019, which was the same in 2017­2018. The CHKS (WestEd) is a reliable and valid instrument.|Met|2019
19647336018923|Riverside Drive Charter|6|Riverside Drive Charter administered the 2018 -2019 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 4th and 5th graders.  The participation rate for this survey was 94%  The following are the questions that pertain to the school climate and the % of students indicating Yes, Always / Strongly Agree are noted next to the question.  Are you happy to be at this school? 79% Do you feel like you are part of this school? 74% Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 79% Do you feel safe at this school? 73% New this year at Riverside Drive Charter, have made some changes in terms of when we hold certain events. Moving events to a weeknight or Saturday night allowed families who observe Shabbat to participate. We have experienced a higher participation rate for these event than in prior years. We have added spirit days  that students are participating in. Red Ribbon Week allowed us to have students to act as the messenger in relaying information to the school via the PA system. Students are asking about opportunities to participate in these activities and thereby feel more connected to the school.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
36678270113928|Riverside Preparatory|6|Riverside Preparatory School administered  a School Climate survey (Hanover Research) to all parents, grades TK-12. All staff also completed the survey and students grades 4th grade to 12th grade.   The survey revealed that 82% of parents agree or strongly agree that “school[s] effectively keep parents informed about events and activities. Nealry 97% of parents believe that their child wants to learn and  believe that their students want to do well in school.  Student safety and connectedness continues to be a priority at Riverside Preparatory and many programs have been implemented to ensure students are safe and feel connected.  The school will continue to look for new ways to engage students and give them opportunities to share their concerns. Riverside Preparatory continues to build programs that promote a safe school environment for students and staff.   I-School and Student Leading Education Development (SLED) programs give students a platform to voice concerns and allow them the tools to find their own student lead solutions to these problems. This year middle school and high school SLED teams will work on a national campaign to promote the dangers of vaping and give Riverside Preparatory students opportunities to engage with students that are not feeling connected at school.   Riverside Preparatory added personnel and programs to address the issues of school promote healthy social and emotional growth for students. A School Resource Officer was hired to train staff and provide additional security to all campuses. A registered nurse and licensed vocational nurses were employed for the elementary, middle and high school site to work with parents, students, and staff on physical health concerns and healthy living. An elementary school  counselor works to provide students assistance with social issues that affect their academic progression. The second year of  social-emotional curriculum, along with professional development for staff has resulted in all students having tools to advocate for their emotional health.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
33672150000000|Riverside Unified|6|In the Fall of each year, the Gallup Student Survey is administered districtwide, voluntarily, to students in grades 5 through 12. The survey focuses on four indicators that relate to School Climate. Our students are part of a national cohort, which tracks regional, state and national trends. In 2017-18, the Gallup Student Survey results reports were enhanced to include disaggregated student response information by Riverside Unified School District (RUSD) specific student groups. RUSDs 2017-18 engagement of 17,924 students was 51% compared to the 2018-19 engagement of 17,877 students at 49%.  The district Success Indicator target was 2% growth or 53%. The engagement “grandmean” for 2018-19, that is, the overall average of all survey items on the engagement section of the survey, was 3.89, slightly down from 3.92 in the previous year. The national grandmean stayed flat at 3.85 in both 2017 and 2018. Students in 5th through 8th grades had the highest Engagement average (4.07) and were 0.39 points higher than the 9th through 12th grades average (3.68). The questions with the highest averages were: “I have a best friend at school.” - 83% Agree/Strongly Agree; “I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.” - 78% Agree / Strongly Agree; “My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important.” - 74% Agree/Strongly Agree. In terms of student program and racial/ethnic groups, the 2018-19 results revealed that for our Hispanic students, the largest student racial/ethnic group in RUSD, 50% of students responded that they are engaged in school. The White and African American student groups responded with 47% engaged, respectively.  These three important student groups account for over 90% of the students who responded to the survey.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647336058150|Robert A. Millikan Affiliated Charter & Performing Arts Magnet Middle|6|The students of Millikan Affiliated Middle School participated in the LAUSD 2018-2019 School Experience Survey. 88% of students completed the survey. The following are the survey responses that pertain to school climate: 1. The percentage of students who reported feeling safe at school was 61%. 2. The percentage of students who reported that they are happy at school was 73% 3. The percentage of students who reported that they feel like they are a part of the school was 68%. 4. The percentage of students who reported that they felt accepted for who they are was 72%. 5. The percentage of students who reported that "If I told a teacher or other adult at my school that another student was bullying me, he or she would try to help me." was 75%. Though the positive student response for question three is almost the same as the overall LAUSD level, it points to the need to engage in ongoing professional development on Culturally Responsive Pedagogy and intentional implementation of culturally and linguistically responsive instruction. Though the majority of our students responded positively to these questions, there were declines from year to year. The LEA recognized concerns in the fall of 2018 and implemented professional development in Restorative Justice for faculty and staff and parent training to address school climate and positive behavior support plans.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
50712330121525|Roberts Ferry Charter School Academy|6|According to the 2018/2019 California Healthy Survey, seventh graders at Roberts Ferry Charter Academy feel safe and are happy to be at school. They strongly agree with the school being neat and maintained well. Students feel their teachers do a good job of communicating to parents. Through student council we take in consideration the students input to how to make their school better. We also have a student within the council from each grade 4th - 8th.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50712330000000|Roberts Ferry Union Elementary|6|According to the 2018/2019 California Healthy Survey, seventh graders at RFS feel safe and are happy to be at school. They strongly agree with the school being neat and maintained well. Students feel their teachers do a good job of communicating to parents. Through student council we take in consideration the students input to how to make their school better. We also have a student within the council from each grade 4th - 8th.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
34674210000000|Robla Elementary|6|The LEA administers the California Healthy Kids survey each Spring to all 5th and 6th grade students, and to all parents and staff to measure perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The results of Spring 2018 are as follows: 96% of 5th grade and 6th grade students rated School Connectedness 'moderate' to 'high' on the Healthy Kids Survey. The survey also reported students perception of feeling safe at school; 76.5% of 5th and 6th grade students felt safe 'most' or 'all the time' at school. The results are reported to the local governing board and stakeholders and are utilized in determining actions and services in Goal 2 of the Robla School District LCAP. As a result of this data, the Robla SD provided comprehensive professional learning on social emotional learning to all school staff, certificated and classified, at all school sites.|2019-10-24|The Robla School District continues the implementation of Positive Behavior Interventions & Supports (PBIS) district wide. Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) is a proactive approach to establishing the behavioral supports and social culture and needed for all students in a school to achieve social, emotional and academic success.|Met|2019
43104390125781|Rocketship Academy Brilliant Minds|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 87% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 84% of students, and integration of home and school, reflected in the 82% of families that report being able to support student learning at home. One area we're working to grow is lunchtime management, where currently 95% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390125799|Rocketship Alma Academy|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 90% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers: 87% of students have a strong relationship with their teacher and 89% of families reported being treated well by the school principal. One area we're working to grow is arrival/dismissal procedures, where currently 95% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
07616480137430|Rocketship Delta Prep|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 81% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 81% of students, and campus cleanliness, which 88% of families were satisfied or very satisfied with. One area where we're working to grow is lunchtime management, where currently 86% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390123281|Rocketship Discovery Prep|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 88% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 90% of students, and general student happiness, reflected in the 88% of students that reported being happy and excited to come to school each day. One area where we're working to grow is arrive/dismissal procedures, where currently 95% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390131110|Rocketship Fuerza Community Prep|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 87% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 86% of students, and integration of home and school, reflected in the 85% of families that report being able to support student learning at home. One area we're working to grow is lunchtime management. While no respondents felt negatively about it, there were some who reported neutral feelings (26%) and we would like to move towards a positive lunch experience for all students.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
07770240134072|Rocketship Futuro Academy|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 89% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 96% of students, and integration of home and school, reflected in the 95% of families that report being able to support student learning at home.  One area where we're working to grow is arrival/dismissal, where currently 89% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390120642|Rocketship Los Suenos Academy|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 82% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 84% of students, and general student happiness, reflected in the 85% of students that reported being happy and excited to come to school each day. One area where we're working to grow is school cleanliness. While no respondents felt negatively about it, there were some who reported neutral feelings (39%) and we would like to move towards a positive school cleanliness experience for all students.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390113704|Rocketship Mateo Sheedy Elementary|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 85% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 87% of students, and general student happiness, reflected in the 80% of students that reported being happy and excited to come to school each day. One area we're working to grow is to continue focusing on lunchtime management, where currently 93% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43694500123299|Rocketship Mosaic Elementary|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 95% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 93% of students, and general student happiness, reflected in the 89% of students that reported being happy and excited to come to school each day. One area where we're working to grow is lunchtime management. While no respondents felt negatively about it, there were some who reported neutral feelings (25%) and we would like to move towards a positive lunch experience for all students.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
41690050132076|Rocketship Redwood City|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 89% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 84% of students, and integration of home and school, reflected in the 85% of families that report being able to support student learning at home. One area where we're working to grow is lunchtime management, where currently 95% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390133496|Rocketship Rising Stars|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 88% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by general student happiness, reflected in the 82% of students that reported being happy and excited to come to school each day and campus cleanliness, which 90% of families were satisfied or very satisfied with. One area where we're working to grow is lunchtime management, where currently 94% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43104390119024|Rocketship Si Se Puede Academy|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 85% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 84% of students, and family home visits, which 81% reported occurred and were meaningful. One area where we're working to grow is arrive/dismissal procedures, where currently 93% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
43694500128108|Rocketship Spark Academy|6|The school administers surveys to gauge school safety and connectedness. This survey is created with the input of several teams, including School, Achievement, and Family Engagement to gauge parent and student satisfaction with their schools across several categories. This comprehensive survey is tailored specifically to the needs and goals of Rocketship, and serves as a common marker across the organization on feelings toward the school. It is used for measuring progress against LCAP goals, among others. It is available in Spanish and Vietnamese to those who need translations.  Families are largely satisfied with the school, with 92% of respondents reporting that they were satisfied or very satisfied. High rates of satisfaction could be driven by strong relationships with staff and teachers, which were reported for 92% of students, and general student happiness, reflected in the 87% of students that reported being happy and excited to come to school each day. One area where we're working to grow is arrival/dismissal, where currently 95% of students are having neutral-to-positive experiences, but we'd like to grow toward 100%.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
54720900000000|Rockford Elementary|6|Rockford continues to provide a safe, secure, and welcoming school climate for students, staff and parents resulting in high levels of student, parent, and community engagement as confirmed by two surveys. The first is an annual local survey that emphasizes local concerns developed by empowered parents and staff and is geared toward multiple grade levels. The second is the California Healthy Kids Survey administered in grades 6-8. Rockford is a safe school where learning processes are not interrupted by outside influences or discipline issues. Rockford has a fair discipline policy, which is clearly understood and supported by staff, students, and parents; we have had few suspensions and no expulsions over the past 5 years, a clear result of our school climate. Student engagement is a crucial component for student success. Rockford’s goal is to involve students as active participants in their education by providing them with project-based learning opportunities, test chats with students, and cross-curricular activities. We enjoy wide participation of parents in classrooms as volunteers and regularly hold school activities that need parent participation. Parents are active partners with teachers in their child’s education and parents are actively involved and empowered on the School Site Council and English Learner Advisory Committee.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
31750856118392|Rocklin Academy|6|Rocklin Academy Family of Schools envisions a school community that inspires its students to excel academically, pursue their passions, and impact the world with excellence.  In order for this vision to come to fruition, it is important that students feel safe and connected at school.  In an effort to measure perceptions of connectedness and safety,  Rocklin Academy seeks input from stakeholders, including students on a regular basis by participating in local surveys.  One of these is the California Healthy Kids Survey which was administered in grade 5, 7, 9 and 11 in the winter of 2019.  Results serve to measure the organization’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate.  Because of the recalibration of norms by WestEd, the survey developer, overall results cannot be compared to those reported the previous year at this time but will be used as a baseline for future data. LCAP Goal 1, Action 3.0 and 3.1 focus on building connections across all four Rocklin Academy schools and identifies events and activities to connect the sites, increasing the number of opportunities for students to develop a sense of connectedness to their school.  Additionally, Rocklin Academy has identified ways to promote student safety and each site has created plans to help students make connections.  LCAP Goal 2 states, “The school environment cultivates students who are responsible, compassionate and engaged citizens.”  LCAP actions and services have been identified to support expected outcomes to include the following:  continued development and implementation of the Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS), Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS), and social emotional learning curriculum, In Focus.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
31750850114371|Rocklin Academy at Meyers Street|6|Rocklin Academy Family of Schools envisions a school community that inspires its students to excel academically, pursue their passions, and impact the world with excellence.  In order for this vision to come to fruition, it is important that students feel safe and connected at school.  In an effort to measure perceptions of connectedness and safety, Rocklin Academy seeks input from stakeholders, including students on a regular basis by participating in local surveys.  One of these is the California Healthy Kids Survey which was administered in grade 5, 7, 9 and 11 in the winter of 2019.  Results serve to measure the organization’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate.  The percentage of 5th grade students at Rocklin Academy at Meyers Street who reported feeling safe at school all or most of the time was 95%.  The percentage of students who reported a high level of connectedness with the school was 81%.    LCAP Goal 1, Action 3.0 and 3.1 focus on building connections across all four Rocklin Academy schools and identifies events and activities to connect the sites, increasing the number of opportunities for students to develop a sense of connectedness to their school.  Additionally, Rocklin Academy has identified ways to promote student safety and each site has created plans to help students make connections.  LCAP Goal 2 states, “The school environment cultivates students who are responsible, compassionate and engaged citizens.”  LCAP actions and services have been identified to support expected outcomes to include the following:  continued development and implementation of the Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS), Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS), and social emotional learning curriculum, In Focus.  The work we have been doing has shown a significant increase in the percentage of students who feel safe at school all or most of the time.  We are incredibly proud that 95% of our 5th grade students reported feeling safe at school all or most of the time.  Although this percentage is high, our goal is for all students to feel this way.  We will continue to promote the effective work that we have been doing as well as identifying new strategies to help students feel a high level connectedness with the school.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
31668520127928|Rocklin Academy Gateway|6|Rocklin Academy Family of Schools envisions a school community that inspires its students to excel academically, pursue their passions, and impact the world with excellence.  In order for this vision to come to fruition, it is important that students feel safe and connected at school.  In an effort to measure perceptions of connectedness and safety,  Rocklin Academy seeks input from stakeholders, including students on a regular basis by participating in local surveys.  One of these is the California Healthy Kids Survey which was administered in grade 5, 7, 9 and 11 in the winter of 2019.  Results serve to measure the organization’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate.  Because of the recalibration of norms by WestEd, the survey developer, overall results cannot be compared to those reported the previous year at this time but will be used as a baseline for future data. LCAP Goal 1, Action 3.0 and 3.1 focus on building connections across all four Rocklin Academy schools and identifies events and activities to connect the sites, increasing the number of opportunities for students to develop a sense of connectedness to their school.  Additionally, Rocklin Academy has identified ways to promote student safety and each site has created plans to help students make connections.  LCAP Goal 2 states, “The school environment cultivates students who are responsible, compassionate and engaged citizens.”  LCAP actions and services have been identified to support expected outcomes to include the following:  continued development and implementation of the Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS), Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS), and social emotional learning curriculum, In Focus.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
31750850128561|Rocklin Independent Charter Academy|6|Rocklin Independent Charter Academy’s mission, as a unique, innovative, and collaborative K-12 educational community, is to ensure students become academically, socially, and emotionally balanced, discover their passion for lifelong learning, and thrive individually. Therefore, RICA continually seeks input from all stakeholders, including students.  Each year students engagement consists of a local LCAP survey or California Healthy Kids Survey and a student forum.  In the fall of 2018, the local LCAP student survey was administered in grades 4, 6, 8 and 10.    During the 2018-2019 school year, 39 tenth grade students took the survey.   The following are key findings that impacted the development of the RICA LCAP for 2019-2020.  92.31% of students are happy to be at school some, most or all of the time.  88.89% of students feel they are a part of school some, most or all of the time.  89.74% of students feel safe at school most or all of the time.     The expected outcomes as a result of the RICA LCAP actions and services for Goal 2, which states “RICA will provide support systems for learning (during both the school day and after school) and provide a safe, healthy climate where all students have the opportunity to achieve at high levels” is to maintain the percentage of students indicating they feel safe at school and decrease the percentage of students indicating they were bullied and cyber bullied at school within the last year by 3% annually.  LCAP actions include the implementation of Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) to support students academically, socially, emotionally, and behaviorally and providing safe, well maintained facilities and infrastructure for student use and success.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
31750850000000|Rocklin Unified|6|Rocklin Unified School District’s (RUSD) mission, as a leader of educational excellence, is to ensure each student becomes a well-rounded individual who thrives intellectually and develops unique strengths to pursue and achieve personal growth and contribute to a dynamic world.  Therefore RUSD continually seeks input from all stakeholders, including students. Each year students take either a local LCAP survey or the California Healthy Kids Survey, and a representative group of students participate in a forum eliciting their perceptions of learning, connectedness, safety, and fairness. In the fall of 2018, the local LCAP student survey was administered in grades 4, 6, 8 and 10.    During the 2018-2019 school year, 43% of 4th grade students, 57% of 6th grade students, 92% of 8th grade students and 69% of 10th grade students completed the LCAP Student Survey.  The following are key findings that impacted the development of the RUSD LCAP for 2019-2020.  In 2018, 58-79% of students feel part of the school, however the percentage of students who indicate they feel part of the school decreases as their grade level increases.  77-87% of students felt safe at school with elementary students generally feeling safer than secondary students. In 2018, 69-89% of students indicated staff at school listen when they have something to say, with the greatest increase in the 6th grade cohort data.  70-94% of students indicate staff members make it clear that bullying is not allowed.  77-90% of students indicate staff will do something to help if informed of bullying. 25-60% of students indicate students try to stop bullying when they see it happening. Overall, results showed there was an increase in  perception of safety, connectedness, engagement, and responsiveness to negative peer interactions.  LCAP Goal 2 states, “RUSD will provide support systems for learning (during both the school day and after school) and provide a safe, healthy climate where all students have the opportunity to achieve at high levels.'' Expected outcomes are to maintain the percentage of students indicating they feel safe at school above 95% and decrease the percentage of students indicating they had a negative peer interaction at school within the last year by 3% annually.  In order to achieve these student outcomes LCAP actions and services include continued implementation of Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) to support students academically, socially, emotionally, and behaviorally. Specifically, the Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) system, School-based Therapy through our partner, Wellness Together, Bullying/Cyberbullying prevention strategies, and continued partnerships with Rocklin Police, Fire and EMS are being utilized to accomplish this work.  Additionally, training and implementation of Restorative Practices and de-escalation strategies began during the 18-19 school year.  Positive student outcomes are expected with integrity of implementation over time.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
45752670113407|Rocky Point Charter|6|Key learning from our most recent student survey with 113 responses from grades 3-8 express that 75% of student feel accepted.  72% feel they have the opportunity at school to take part in decision-making, 74% feel safe while at school. 77% of students reported that teachers and other adults here will help me if I have a problem. The results are average and we seek to have better a better outcome so we are actively looking for ways to help make our students feel safer, feel heard and encourage them to help make decisions for the school.  We have an active Leadership Club with students from grades 2-8, who meet twice a week to help create a fun learning environment for peers at school, who create activities and share out announcements for upcoming events.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
43693936046668|Rolling Hills Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
33672310000000|Romoland Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered to Romoland School District students in grades 5 and 7 annually. Results are analyzed to inform school climate and safety needs and actions as noted in each school’s School Plan for Student Achievement (SPSA) and School Safety Plan. The district Local Control and Accountability Plan Steering Committee analyzes the results annually to inform needs and actions for inclusion in the Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP).  CHKS Spring 2019 Data, % “Yes, most of the time” or “Yes, all of the time” Ratings:  School Connectedness-- Grade 5: 73% Grade 7: 51% Academic Motivation-- Grade 5: 85%            Grade 7: 62% Caring Adult Relationships-- Grade 5: 74%           Grade 7: 49% High Expectations of Adults in the School-- Grade 5: 86% Grade 7: 63% School Safety-- Grade 5: 71% Grade 7: 53%  Key learnings from the data are: School Connectedness, Academic Motivation, Caring Adult Relationships, and High Expectations improved greatly from 2017-18 Elementary students have higher ratings than middle school students across all areas Academic motivation is high for most students Most students feel that adults in school have high expectations for them Student feelings of safety at school is an area for continued growth  Meaning: The data reflect that investments in full time school counselors, multi-tiered systems of support for academics and behavior, and bullying prevention plans at each site have contributed to improvements in students feeling supported at school. Continued implementation and refinement of multi-tiered systems of support for academics and behavior, school based mental health services, school culture and relationship development, and personalized student goal setting will support improvement in all areas.  Use: Each elementary site has one full time counselor. The middle school has two full-time counselors. Counselors meet as a district-wide group monthly for professional collaboration. The group uses the results of the CHKS to guide their instructional program development for the year. The counselors teach guidance lessons monthly to all students. Site administrators and stakeholder groups analyze the CHKS data to make site Safety Plan adjustments, set SPSA goals and actions, and develop strategies and programs to improve the school climate in an ongoing manner.  District-wide data and stakeholder feedback from 2018-19 indicated the need to support students’ mental health, and those actions for 2019-20 are being implemented via the LCAP process.  Previous data indicated the need to implement at each site: full time counselors, bullying prevention plans, and multi-tiered systems of support for student behavior. All have been implemented and have resulted in dramatic reductions in suspensions and positive student feelings about school supports, adults, and connectedness.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
10622400113142|Ronald W. Reagan Elementary|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results, Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
10622406006712|Roosevelt Elementary|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
15637500000000|Rosedale Union Elementary|6|The Rosedale Union School District values the input from all stakeholders as we plan, develop, and implement all action steps towards our District FOCUS (LCAP) in regard to school climate. To achieve the greatest input from our stakeholders, surveys were distributed to all parents, students (grades 6-8), and staff. Surveys included questions that were rated on a “agree/disagree” scale with the opportunity for open ended statements.  Students also completed the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in Spring of 2018. Overall, the surveys indicated:  Students:   86% of our students report having or feeling a high level of connectedness at school   94% report a high level of academic motivation. ?   83% report feeling they have adults at school that care about them. ?   79% report there is a culture of high expectations at school.   87% perceive the school as safe or very safe. ?  90% believe schools are clean and maintained.  In addition to the district survey, students completed the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the Spring of 2018 and students indicated similar perceptions as was established in the district survey. CHKS did specify student perceptions about bullying and substance abuse. Overall, the survey indicated: 98% feel Teachers here make it clear to students that bullying is not tolerated. 93% of students tell teachers when other students are being bullied. 96% state that if a student was bullied, he or she would tell one of the teachers or staff at school. 99% of students respect each other’s differences. 96% of students believe there is an insignificant problem of alcohol and/or substance abuse.  Parents and Staff:   96% of our students have or feel a high level of connectedness at school.  97% report a high level of academic motivation.?  91% report feeling they have adults at school that care about them.?   87% report there is a culture of high expectations at school.?   98% perceive the school as safe or very safe. ?  99% believe schools are clean and maintained.  87% believe regular communication has been positive in gathering and seeking stakeholder input.   Based on the data results of the various surveys, students and parents indicated a high percentage feel schools are safe, staff care about them, and bullying and substance abuse is very low. The meaning of these results describes our schools as being proactive in ensuring we have policies and protocols in place to make our students and parents feel safe and connected when they come to school. They also feel, because of this, learning can occur with high expectations established by their teachers. Also, having them feel and believe that bullying and substance abuse is significantly low in our schools is another strength that validates a safe and nurturing school for ALL of our students. We can use this data and look at the challenges and/or barriers for us to consider as we move forward.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49709040000000|Roseland|6|To measure our progress in promoting a positive, healthy school climate, the district conducts an annual student LCAP survey for students in grades 3-6.  Additionally, fifth grade students participate in the CA Healthy Kids Survey every other year.  Through these surveys, we collect data related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness, as well as social-emotional wellbeing.  Survey results are used to determine focus or challenge areas to address.  Results are reported annually through the LCAP.  Key Data Points from the 2018-19 Local Student Survey:  • 79% of students are happy to be at school all or most of the time • 83% of students feel safe at school all or most of the time • 73% of students plan on going to college or some other form of post-secondary education; 22% are unsure • 76% of students feel respected by their peers and feel that they have friends who care about them all or most of the time • 88% of students feel respected by teachers/school staff and feel that teachers/school staff care about them  • 18% of students report that feeling unhappy or worried is a concern • Top student concerns include:  worrying about grades, worrying about performance on tests, and homework  Based on our data collection in the area of school climate, the district has found that students continue to have a high level of school connectedness.  Strong relationships between students and school staff are evident.  However, it is critical that the district continue to focus on Social Emotional Wellbeing.  Students who have experienced trauma, as well as those experiencing feelings of unhappiness and stress must continue to receive comprehensive support.  Some of the ways the district is addressing this is through Social Emotional Learning in the classroom, school counseling services, and assistance in accessing community resources.  Additionally, a future next step for the district is to revisit our Through College action plan in order to increase college awareness and motivation for our TK-6 students.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
49709040101923|Roseland Charter|6|Roseland Charter administers a yearly local survey to students in grades 3 -12 that focuses on student perceptions of school safety and connectedness, as well as student social-emotional well-being. There were 826 charter students who completed the 2019 student survey. Survey results were as follows: 88% of students responded that they feel safe at school all or most of the time, 79% of students responded that they plan to go to college or some other type of school after high school graduation, 65% of students responded being happy at school all or most of the time, 85 of students reported feeling respected by their peers and having friends that care about them all or most of the time, 81% of students responded feeling respected, liked and cared about by teachers/staff, 75% of students reported that they are worried about their grades, and 51% of students reported being concerned about college readiness. Results showed that Roseland Charter’s strengths are that the vast majority of our students feel safe at school, have developed strong relationships between school staff and their peers, feel happy to be at school, and exhibit high academic motivation, with future plans to attain a postsecondary education. Identified challenges and next steps for this priority area are: addressing issues related to students’ overall social-emotional wellbeing, helping students develop strategies to manage anxiety and stress, and supporting academically struggling students. To meet this need, the charter will continue to implement Social Emotional Learning in the classrooms, as well as include school counseling and assistance with accessing community resources, for identified students. In addition, the charter will provide school site intervention/tutoring to support struggling students. Providing a positive school climate for students is a large priority for the charter, and is included in Goal 3 of the charter’s LCAP.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19649310000000|Rosemead Elementary|6|The Rosemead School District administers the LCAP Student Survey every Spring.  In 2019, the Student LCAP Survey was administered to all students in 4th-8th grades.  In addition, the California Healthy Kids Survey is administered to students in 5th-8th grades every two years, however, we have decided to administer this every year starting in 2019.  Both surveys collect data to indicate how safe students feel at school and how connected they feel to their school.  Both surveys provide us with valuable information to develop programs to support student needs in the area of school safety and connectedness.   The Rosemead School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in spring 2018. Results serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority 6, School Climate. Overall, the results indicate that there is a strong sense of connectedness, although slight differences in student perceptions exist between the grade levels. Fifth grade students report higher levels of connectedness and safety compared to seventh grade students (81% and 64%). A high percentage of 5th grade students (92%)  feel they are treated with respect. Rosemead School District met three of the four goals that we set for the Healthy Kids Survey: 5th grade school connectedness - 60% or greater - Met (64%) 5th grade safety - 55% or more  - Met (81%) 7th grade connectedness - 53% or more - Met (53%) 7th grade safety - 71% or more Not Met - 65% of students reported that they felt safe or very safe in school Our LCAP Student Survey results from 2019 showed that overall, 96% of 4th-8th grade students agreed/strongly agreed they receive a good education from school.  Other results showed 78% look forward to coming to school, 78% feel they are a valued member of their school, 87% feel they are well liked and respected by teachers/staff, 84% feel they are well liked and respected by other students, 95% feel their teachers teach them how to behave appropriately, and 89% feel their teachers teach them strategies to resolve conflict respectfully.   We believe that our work with the Leader in Me/7 Habits and PBIS has shaped a culture within our schools that is conducive to positive relationships and strong support systems. On the other hand, we recognize there is still work to be done. When asked about experiences with harassment or bullying and experiences with chronic sadness, approximately 30% of students responded they they have experienced these.  This indicates to us that we need to continue to focus on and pay close attention to the social emotional experiences of our students.|2019-10-17|In response to the CHKS data, the Rosemead School District has made changes in LCAP Actions/Services to address school safety. The district also has hired a full time counselor to be assigned to the middle school. To continue the positive work with regards to our students feeling they are treated with respect, the district fully supports, encourages, lives and breathes Leader In Me and PBIS.  Over the course of several years of implementation of Leader in Me/7 Habits and PBIS, the Rosemead School District has experienced an overall decrease in suspensions and discipline issues.  In addition, administrators, teachers, and all staff have increased knowledge of best practices in teaching positive behaviors and building strong, supportive, positive behaviors.   Link to Rosemead School District California Healthy Kids Survey results https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1s3dkVWT30P8tI3hrO-taBI5lL9vj8iuv?usp=sharing|Met|2019
01612590131896|Roses in Concrete|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
31669100000000|Roseville City Elementary|6|On the 2018-2019 district survey, parents indicated positive perceptions of school climate. Most responding parents noted that all students are treated fairly (75%), school rules are fair (85%), and students feel safe at school (87%). Across all questions regarding school climate, levels of disagreement did not exceed 10 percent.  The CHKS survey reported data differently, and therefore, there is no comparable data to other years. Using the 2018-2019 CHKS data, 66% of 7th grader strongly agreed or agreed that they were connected to the school. Baseline data results for 5th-grade will be utilized in the MTSS work. The following significant changes are being implemented in 2019-2020 based on our results: 1) At the middle schools, we will be implementing a new grading system to provide both students and families with more specific feedback about academic progress and learning behaviors. 2) We will be implementing a districtwide system of support to ensure families in being our partners and improving a student's academic, behavioral, and socio-emotional strengths and needs. 3) We will be increasing in socio-emotional supports, including four social workers and two behavior analysts. Also, all schools will be implementing a socio-emotional curriculum, Second Step, and within the next two years, all schools will be engaged in Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS). Sites will also be including goals and action in the SPSA based on specific site climate survey results.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
31669280000000|Roseville Joint Union High|6|In the 2018-2019 school year, each school site was working on the implementation of a Wellness Center.  In its first year of implementation, the Wellness Centers had 21 total staff spread amongst 7 sites.  In 2018-2019, the Wellness Centers had 1617 students “walk-in” for help or services.  In 2019-2020, the Wellness Centers are projecting to see 3 times the number of walk-ins based on current data.  The growth and strength of the Wellness Centers are based on the safe, welcoming and easy to access spaces on each campus.  The additional of 20+ staff across the district has also increased capacity and services to students.  Each school site has a dedicated space on campus for students to access support and resources related to Wellness.  With growth, the challenge is more space and a bigger facility to keep growing.  Overall, the district has seen a decrease in suspensions and expulsions, and attendance continues to be high.  Community partnerships continue to form with government and non-government agencies to bring in added resources for students and staff through Wellness.  We will utilize our Education for the Future perception survey and data for LCAP purposes in the years we do not administer the California Healthy Kids Survey to stay abreast of the impact or potential impact our efforts may be.   In addition to Wellness Centers, the RJUHSD continues to participate in the MTSS/SUMS professional development and protocols.  This training is being applied to our improvement efforts which we continue with Education for the Future and the Continuous School Improvement (CSI) cycle which is the work outlined in Dr. Victoria L Bernhardt’s book, Data Analysis for Continuous School Improvement.  The entire district participated in a districtwide CSI process in 2018-19 to align the district’s vision, mission, goals and strategic plan framework. In 2019-2020, the schools are participating in a site-level CSI process to align the district goals with site-level needs and actions.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
21654330000000|Ross Elementary|6|The Ross School District utilized the California Healthy Kids Survey to determine trends and patterns related to student social, emotional, and physical well-being.  The 2019 data illustrated that students at Ross School, in general, trend towards strong mental health development, minimal substance abuse, and feel that the school is safe.  In the sub-section "School Engagement and Support", students found a strong connection to school and caring adult relationships.  At the same time, trends showed that students were less motivated than in years past and lacked meaningful participation in their academic classes.  The Ross School District will be investing in progressive pedagogical opportunities in classrooms to enhance student motivation and participation.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
21770650135350|Ross Valley Charter|6|Data:  91.7% of students agreed with the following statement: "I have strong, safe, and healthy relationships with other students at my school."  96.5% of students agreed with the following statement: "I have a strong, safe, and healthy relationship with my teacher."  97.6% of students stated that they feel like they belong at their school.  Meaning: Our students overwhelming feel like they have strong, safe, and healthy relationships; and they feel like they belong in our school.  Use: Our introduction of our new Social and Emotional Learning program in addition to setting firm and positive expectations for our students has lead to a learning environment where students feel safe and a sense of belonging.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
21750020000000|Ross Valley Elementary|6|The Ross Valley School District regularly seeks input from parents and community members. Parents participate on school site councils, parent club organizations, and on our district-wide Superintendent’s Council. We receive detailed feedback from parents through the Healthy Kids Survey which is administered every other year. The 2017-18 survey results demonstrated a strong partnership between our parents and schools.  • 85% of parents felt they had input in the decision-making process • 93% of the parents feel welcome on the school campus • 87% were involved in their child’s education • 88% of the parents stated that they reviewed their child’s homework • 69% of the parents responded that they attended parent conferences.   • 61% of the parents indicated that they volunteered in the classroom/school • 50% of the parents stated they attended at least one parent training/family night • 78% of the parents would attend more events if they were in the evening Our district has made equity and inclusion a primary focus and as a part of this initiative, we will be creating a parent equity committee. This committee will examine the engagement of underrepresented families in our schools.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
14633050000000|Round Valley Joint Elementary|6|Data: Per the California Healthy Kid survey, 90% of the students taking the survey reported feeling safe at school and 80% reported feeling connectedness. The Healthy Kid survey was completed by 29 parents, 14 staff members and 10 7th grade students. 62% of the parents felt their child was safe at school and 59% felt welcome to participate in school decisions. The LEA continues with their Character Counts campaign and participates in Kindness Counts event yearly. We are positively proactive in the areas of climate in that we bring in speakers from community support groups such as Wild Iris and Probation Department to work positively with all students. We have implemented Zones of Regulation which teach all student how to handle emotions and to voice how they are feeling about a personal or school issue.Our anti bullying motto of Don't standby - Stand up, Stand strong, Stand together has really helped reduce incidences of bullying and have empowered students to stop misbehavior at the source. Meaning: We will try to increase parent participation by sending the link to the survey several times. We get good results from teachers and students but the pool is small and can be skewed by one or two outlanders.  Use: Our School Site Council will be instrumental in designing this year's survey so that stakeholders can have a bigger say in the questions that are posed to the community.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
23656070000000|Round Valley Unified|6|Our CHKS looked at several areas. School Engagement, School Safety, Disciplinary Environment and Substance abuse. School Engagement: 63%  of our students perceived their performance about the same as others, 33% better than others and only 6% said below others. 91% of our students believe that there are caring adults in school and 57% said adults have high expectations for them in school. Only 66% said there is meaningful participation in school. This is one area of focus to make learning meaningful and relevant to the students interest. Academic motivation was low. 75% of students were not academically motivated which means they come to school for other reasons. Majority of the students 54% feel happy at school and 76% feel safe at school. Disciplinary Environment: 83% of students surveyed said they understand school rules and 74% said they are fair but 56% said they don't believe they are treated fairly when the rules are broken. 80% of students feel the adults treat them with respect. When asked if students are well behaved at school 92%said most of the time they are. Most students feel safe at school but 40% of students have faced some sort of bullying from physical to verbal. Substance Abuse: A high number of students 85% said they have never used Marijuana, Inhalants, Alcohol (Full Glass). 82% said that cigarettes are very bad and only 58% said that e-cigarettes are bad, a campaign we need to step up and educate more o e-cigarette danger. I believe overall the school district is in good shape health wise. we are always trying to combat the use of drugs and alcohol in our schools and trying to reduce the bullying that happens in school and on social media and we are trying to continue to find stratagies that really engage our students to come to school because the information is meaningful and relevant.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
19734520000000|Rowland Unified|6|RUSD uses the California Healthy Kids Survey in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 to measure progress on this indicator.  Highlights from 2019 Healthy Kids Survey: Average Percentage of Students Reporting “Agree” or “Strongly Agree:"  Grade 5 Students: School connectedness - 71% Academic motivation - 85% Caring adult relationships - 71% Culture of high expectations - 84% Meaningful participation - 44% Perceive school as safe or very safe - 74%  Grade 7 Students: School connectedness - 66% Academic motivation - 74% Caring adult relationships - 64% Culture of high expectations - 77% Meaningful participation - 30% Perceive school as safe or very safe - 66% Experienced harassment or bullying - 40%  Grade 9 Students: School connectedness - 59% Academic motivation - 71% Caring adult relationships - 60% Culture of high expectations - 68% Meaningful participation - 28% Perceive school as safe or very safe - 59% Experienced harassment or bullying - 28%  Grade 11 Students: School connectedness - 51% Academic motivation - 66% Caring adult relationships - 61% Culture of high expectations - 69% Meaningful participation - 28% Perceive school as safe or very safe - 51% Experienced harassment or bullying - 22%  Based on this data, and the feedback from students, parents, community members, teachers, and administrators during the LCAP feedback process, we identified the following needs that are being implemented starting the 2019-2020 school year:  1. Added a Lead Counselor to lead and calibrate counseling services for students, including academic, social and emotional. 2. Continued implementation of Positive Behavioral Supports and Interventions (PBIS) at all 19 schools. 3. Added three behavioral specialists to work with students needing additional support 4. Added thirteen behavioral aides to work with students needing additional support 5. Added social emotional services for all K-6 schools by providing mental health counseling 2 days a week at each elementary school.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
34674390102038|Sacramento Charter High|6|Sac High regularly (at least annually) conducts student surveys and every student in the school is encouraged to share their thoughts on a variety of metrics. The surveys are optionally anonymous to promote honest response. A focus area for these surveys is gauging students’ level of safety and connectedness at school. In the 2018-19 school year, the school conducted a survey of students at the end of quarter 2 (mid-year).  70% of 9th graders and 76% of 10-12th graders participated in the survey.  Results are split between 9th and 10-th to 12th because 9th graders participated in the 9th Grade Academy, which is separate from 10-12th grades. A focus area for these surveys is gauging students’ level of safety and connectedness at school. In 2018-19, 89% of 9th graders and 78% of 10-12th graders said they agree or strongly agree that their family knows how they’re doing in school, which indicates families and Sac High are connected and in communication in a way that is easily perceptible to students. Student survey results also indicate students feel connected to their teachers and believe their teachers are guiding them appropriately toward their long-term goals. 78% and 70% of 9th and 10th-12th graders, respectively, said their teachers have high expectations for them, and 86% and 82% said they think doing well in school is important for the future. 83% and 74% agreed or strongly agreed that they understand what they have to do to get to college, and 67% and 52% of 9th and 10-12th graders, respectively, said their school is preparing them for college. Students responded moderately to questions specifically about safety. 45% and 32% of 9th and 10-12th graders, respectively, said their school is a safe environment for them to learn (an additional 42% and 45% were neutral on the subject). In addition, 55% and 53% said there is an adult they can talk to at school when they need to do so.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
34674390000000|Sacramento City Unified|6|SCUSD annually administers a local climate survey to assess student perceptions of safety and connectedness.  In spring 2019 the survey was completed by over 15,000 students in grades 3-12.  Overall, the results do not demonstrate significant growth relative to the district’s goal of 90% positive responses for all students/student groups. For all students, there was a 1% increase in perception of safety to 63.8% from the previous year and a .3% decline in connectedness to 65.8%. Small high schools continued to outperform other groups, with student perception of safety at 76.7% and connectedness at 70.2%.   When disaggregated by ethnicity and race, the most critical area was the perception of safety for African American students, who had 59.4% positive responses. This is 4% below the rate for All students and 9% below that of their White peers. Results by program for safety include: 55% for ELs and Foster Youth, 57% for students with disabilities, 62% for low income students, and 67% for homeless students. Concerning is the disparity between ‘All students’ and the EL, FY, and SWD student groups. Also important to reiterate is the significant improvement needed for ALL students and ALL student groups to reach the district’s goal of 90%.  As in the previous year, the results demonstrate that there is a significantly higher level of perception of safety and connectedness at small high schools.  While there are certainly size-specific conditions present in a small school that facilitate positive school climate, the district’s Continuous Cycle of Improvement (CCI) work is emphasizing the identification of successful practices that can be replicated and scaled.  The success of small high schools in maintaining this higher outcome is an area of focus.  Disparities in student perceptions of safety and/or connectedness for African American students, English Learners, Foster Youth, and Students with Disabilities are critical areas for growth and align with disparate results for the same student groups in other areas.  SCUSD uses the results from the local climate survey with school sites as part of their needs assessment process. This process is a key component of the district’s CCI and helps sites to form school climate/culture goals. These goals are supported by the district’s SEL, PBIS, and School Safety Initiatives. District efforts to increase student engagement through a range of expanded/extended learning opportunities, decrease chronic absenteeism as a focal point of the differentiated assistance process, and to address issues of bullying through training and prevention will all be continued. Ongoing areas of need and focus include: 1) Focus work with teachers and staff around Trauma Informed Practices and Culturally Responsive Teaching 2) Expand Implicit Bias professional learning 3) Create opportunities for the small high schools to share best practices. 4) Continue training and explicit practice to develop growth mindsets for students and staff.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
34103480000000|Sacramento County Office of Education|6|SCOE utilizes the Gallup Student Engagement Survey and a staff-developed survey to annually measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Survey questions include measures of how safe students feel on their campus and available opportunities to communicate what they like most about their school. The student response rate is approximately 50%.  In 2018-2019, students attending SCOE court and community schools, indicated that more than 91.7% of them feel safe at school. As a measure of how connected students feel to school, the most common response from students (approximately 78%) was that they liked their teachers.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
57726940124875|Sacramento Valley Charter|6|SVCS maintained school safety as one of our top priorities. Members of all ethnic groups are admitted to the school as per admission policy that provides a preference to residents of  West Sacramento. Diversity is one of our core principles and we have a zero tolerance policy for any kind of bullying in the school. All students should feel safe, happy, healthy and motivated in Sacramento Valley Charter School.|2019-10-23|The school is kept clean and well organized. All students get freshly cooked vegetarian lunch free regardless of their eligibility. When they get nutrition they need, they feel prepared to accept the challenge of the curriculum.|Met|2019
30736350000000|Saddleback Valley Unified|6|We administer the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year in the Fall. This report contains the 2017-18 results, along with information about actions and services being implemented to support our Local Control and Accountability (LCAP) goals.  The survey question, “How safe do you feel when you are at school?” gave students a choice of very unsafe, unsafe, neither safe or unsafe, safe, or very safe. Seventy seven percent (77%) of all students in grades 5, 7, and 11 completing the survey felt Safe or Very Safe at school. This ranged from 72% of grade 11 students to 83% of grade 5 students.   As a result, during the annual review process, LCAP goal #3 was revised.  LCAP Goal #3, Improve school climate through increased student engagement and parent involvement includes actions and services for additional counselors, implementation of a social-emotional curriculum K-6, and the use of Panorama Surveys to collect additional data in social-emotional learning.  The SVUSD Assessment & Accountability website contains the Local Indicators Progress Report provided to the Board of Education at the 10/17/2019 Board Meeting and the data collected for the report: go.svusd.org/a-a|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37754160139378|Sage Oak Charter - South|6|Data: Parent Participation  With students in student groups: English Learner (EL) 25%, Low Socioeconomic (LI) 17%, Student with Disability (SWD) 25%,  N/A 33% .  Ethnicity:White 42%, Hispanic/Latino 10%, Two or More 28%, Asian 5%, Filipino 5%, Declined to State 10%  Overall % in agreement with: Academic Achievement 93% Positive School Climate 99% Establishing Connections 97% College and Career Readiness and Technical Education Preparedness 100% Overall Satisfaction in School Program 100% Overall Satisfaction with Opportunities to Participate and Provide Input 100% Meaning: Overall high satisfaction rating of our school. Parent student group and ethnicity data demonstrates stakeholder engagement and, the school's building partnerships with parents. Use: Teacher collaboration and training on teaching independent study skills and working independently. Collaborate on strategies to invite and encourage participation of all parent groups.   Data:  Student Participants: EL 43%, Students with a Disability 13%, Foster Youth 4%. low-socioeconomic 21%, N/A 19% Positive School Climate Survey Results Overall % in agreement with: School's High Expectations for Student Performance 100% School Safety 100% Respectful School Climate 100% Caring Adults at School that Support Students 100% Social and Emotional Learning 100% Meaning: Strength in overall satisfaction with this school.  Use: Continue collaboration on research-based strategies for creating and promoting a positive school climate.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
28662900000000|Saint Helena Unified|6|St. Helena Unified administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every year in October to students in grades 4-8, 9 and 11th to measure how we are performing related to school climate and culture as measured by student and staff perceptions.   On the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS)-School Connectedness Percentages-measured by Caring Relationships, High Expectations, and Opportunities for Meaningful Participation- in 7th grade, we were at 68%, 9th grade at 69% and 11th grade at 60%.  In reviewing all the components that make up the school connectedness scale, the lowest percentage was in opportunities for meaningful participation.  The LCAP addresses this by providing the following actions: student panels for the LCAP steering committee, student congress at SHHS, leadership class at both the MS and HS, in addition, researching the possibility of an ethnic studies class in 9th grade for 2020-2021. CHKS School Connectedness Hispanic vs All students showed that our Hispanic students are not reporting that they are feeling as connected to the school as their Anglo counterparts as demonstrated with the following percentages: 7th-65% H vs 75% A, 9th-68% H vs 74% A, 11th- 49% H vs 78% A.  We will continue on the theme of appreciating cultural and honor diversity for students and staff in action 5 of the LCAP, we will continue to utilize Dr. Castillo Kickbush who presented to our 8th-grade AVID students and high school students on the topic of "Valuing Diversity" last year for 2019-20. Dr. Castillo Kickbusch was the keynote for our back to school with all staff focusing on the theme of "Equity". We will continue to have student congress and the 8th-grade Civics class utilizing several of the teaching tolerance strategies and information pieces to build a sense of community for ALL students.  We will follow the EL Roadmap when developing programs for all learners, train staff in language acquisition strategies, continue to train teachers with bilingual guided language acquisition design (BGLAD) and also implement the newly formed multi-tiered system of support (MTSS) teams to address the needs of all students at each school site. In the area of substance use, we have seen an increase in students reporting vaping including tobacco and marijuana.  We have seen the suspension data skyrocket this past year with a considerable increase in student vaping as the primary cause. We are in the process of creating alternative means of correction as a result which may include Saturday School or a diversion program plus cessation education. What actions that have come out of the CHKS: to continue to strengthen our Positive Behavior Intervention Programs (PBIS), increase mindfulness/wellness activities at all sites, and provide additional staff development around equity and culturally responsive teaching.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
50712660000000|Salida Union Elementary|6|The district administers the CA Healthy Kids Survey every other year to students in 5th and 7th grades.  Since the 2017 survey two data points have been areas for growth and monitoring – School Connectedness and Caring Adult Relationships.   In 2019, 5th grade results showed there was a 16% increase in School Connectedness (69%) and 17% increase in Caring Adult Relationships (67%).  Results in 7th grade showed there was no change in School Connectedness (50%) and a 28% increase in Caring Adult Relationships (54%).  Each spring the district surveys all students in grades 3 – 8 using a local survey about LCAP actions including: School Climate, STEAM Thursday learning opportunities; Lunchtime activities led by additional yard duty staff; Keeping the campus and bathrooms clean; Middle School Electives, Clubs and After-school sports.  When comparing the spring 2018 and 2019 surveys, the district saw an increase in the number of students agreeing to the following School Climate questions:  58% of students reported that students treat each other with respect (10% increase) and 89% of students feel that they can go to one or more adults if they have a problem (4% increase).  There was a 1% decrease in the number of students agreeing that they feel they belong (are accepted and liked) at school (81%).|2019-10-15|The district has been implementing Action 2.2 All schools will maintain high levels of safety where students learn social and emotional skills and receive additional supports to increase their engagement in learning.  This action has contributed to the success of increasing School Climate through the addition of the following:  school counselors at each school; elementary  music and PE teachers; S.T.E.A.M Thursdays at elementary schools.  The district is in early implementation phase of school-wide Positive Behavior and Intervention Supports (PBIS) and social emotional learning programs.  The district will continue to implement more fully these actions to continue to increase School Climate.   This information was reported to the board at a regularly scheduled Salida USD Governing Board meeting at the October 15, 2019 board meeting.|Met|2019
27661420000000|Salinas City Elementary|6|All SCESD students in the 3rd-6th grade span (4,820 students) were invited to participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) during the Fall of 2018.  Of the total 4,820 eligible students, 2,821 students participated, or 58.5%, compared to the participation rate in the Fall of 2017 of 57.4%.  This is an increase of 1.1%.  4th and 6th grade students participated at 60% and 68% respectively, while 5th and 3rd grade had lower participation, 50% and 57% respectively.  Metric 1: CHKS respondent data for School Connectedness Scale Fall 2017, 58.25% students reported “high” on School Connectedness Scale Fall 2018, 56.25% of students reported “high” on School Connectedness Scale In Metric 1, there was a slight 2% decrease of students reporting “high” on the School Connectedness Scale.  Metric 2: Fall 2017, 78.5% students responded positively, “Do you feel safe at school?” Fall 2018, 76.75% of students responded positively, “Do you feel safe at school?”  In Metric 2, there was a slight decrease of 1.75% of students reporting positively on their perceptions of safety.|2019-06-17|SCESD is committed to the development and refinement of school climate and culture.  SCESD employs Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) as a framework for this work.  As a local metric for climate and culture, PBIS’s Tiered Fidelity Inventory demonstrates our system’s fidelity at establishing safe and predictable schools.    Metric 3: Spring 2018, 13 of 14 schools achieved 70% or greater at Tier 1 Spring 2019, 13 of 14 schools achieved 70% or greater at Tier 1 Spring 2018, 5 of 14 schools achieved 70% or greater at Tier 2 Spring 2019, 8 of 14 schools achieved 70% or greater at Tier 2 Spring 2018, 5 of 14 schools reached Tier 3 Spring 2019, 7 of 14 schools reached Tier 3   The level of remained consistent from 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 school year in Tier 1. The level of fidelity increased from 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 school year in Tiers 2-3. 3 schools increased their fidelity in Tier 2. 2 schools increased their fidelity in Tier 3.|Met|2019
27661590000000|Salinas Union High|6|The CHKS survey was used to reflect on school climate.  The most impactful results were students feeling very connected to their school sites.  We attributed the connectedness to the efforts  of the Activities DIrectors and school staff having pride and involvement in their school activities.  We did notice a discrepancy in the perspective of the students feeling like they had strong relationships with the adults on their campus.  Students did not feel very connected to adults, yet the teachers results stated they did feel they had strong relationships to students.  Using this discrepancy of the student voice we at PPS decided to create a theme of Building Healthy Relationships for the 2019-2020 PBIS Tier 1 and 2 Team Trainings.  This will help address the discrepancy  and build a positive school climate.  We are seeking to see more of an alignment with the student and teacher perspectives for this coming year.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
49707306110639|Salmon Creek School - A Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey and a Local School Climate Survey were administered. Given the small population of the school, statistical significance of responses was not met in most cases. General trends identified a need for  greater cohesion in social emotional learning strategies and supports for conflict resolution. Restorative resources training is scheduled for 2019-2020 along with other PBIS initiatives to improve school climate.|2019-12-05||Met|2019
30103060126037|Samueli Academy|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: Samueli Academy administered the New Tech Network Student Culture Survey to students in grades 9-12.  A total of 527 students in grades 9-12 participated in the survey, an overall 97% participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS:   The following are the survey results.  • 61% Agree/Strongly Agree – Rules are enforced fairly for all students. • 87% Agree/Strongly Agree – I feel physically safe on campus.  • 84% Agree/Strongly Agree – My peers treat me with respect. • 82% Agree/Strongly Agree – I feel accepted for who I am at school.  • 87% Agree/Strongly Agree – Adults in my school are available to talk about problems I have with schoolwork.  • 87% Agree/Strongly Agree – My school talks with students about options after high school. • 81% Agree/Strongly Agree – My school helps with college applications.  For the end of year (Spring 2020) student survey, our school will assess whether to continue to use the New Tech Network School Culture Survey or another evidence-based comprehensive survey to gather student input on school connectedness, school climate and safety that will inform all stakeholders, in the school’s program and support the ongoing schoolwide improvement cycle.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
27661670000000|San Antonio Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered this Fall and we are awaiting the results as a District.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
27661750000000|San Ardo Union Elementary|6|The San Ardo Union Elementary School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey annually in March to students in grades 3-8. The District has learned from this survey that students feel that adults listen to them as 97.96%, almost five percent higher from the previous year. Students feel they are treated with respect always as 95.91%, almost fifteen percentage points higher than the previous year.  Students also feel that it is clear that bullying is not allowed by the adults in the school supported by a 97.96% rating (which has not been the perception in the past). The other key finding was 89.90% of students reported to be happy at this school, slightly decreased from the prior year but overall high.  We believe the results indicate the Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports implemented over the past four years has been a strength resulting in a positive culture where students want to thrive. The LEA also began the Sandy Hook Promise programs of "Start with Hello" and "See something, Say Something" this past year as a bullying prevention program.  We will continue the implementation of PBIS and the Sandy Hook Promise programs to strengthen the culture and climate of the school.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
35103550000000|San Benito County Office of Education|6|During the 2017-18 school year, the San Benito County Office of Education (SBCOE) administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 7, 9 and 11 at each of its four sites. The CHKS is administered every two years and will be administered again during the 2019-20 school year. Results from the 2017-18 CHKS administered at the alternative schools revealed several areas that were preventing students from being successful. Overall, 6% of students reported feeling connected to school (down from 46%) and 15% reported having at least one caring adult relationship (down from 36%). Regrading Peer Violence and Bullying, 20% of students reported being harassed or bullied (down from 25%) but only 45% said the schools were safe (down from 58%). On a more positive note, 43% reported using drug or alcohol (down from 70%) and 10% stated that they had considered suicide (down from 44%). Based on the CHKS results, the San Benito County Office of Education has implemented several actions which are outlined in the LCAP including: 1) providing counseling services from Behavioral Mental Health and Substance Abuse; 2) implementing the Restorative Justice Program with staff and student training; 3) exploring the implementation of PBIS (Positive Behavior Intervention System); 4) implementing a Multi-Tiered System of Support to match student needs to appropriate resources. In addition, SBCOE is leading a consortium with the San Benito High School District and the Aromas San Juan School District to meet the needs of our most at-risk students by providing support to parents through a Parent University; engaging families through the addition of a Family and Community Engagement Liaison; and providing Social Emotional Learning at each school. Our goal through this work is to increase school connectedness by 5% and decrease peer violence and bullying by 3% as measured by the CHKS biannually.|2019-10-10|The San Benito County Office of Education operates four alternative education programs. The California Healthy Kids Survey measures school climate every other year to grades 7, 9, and 11, allowing schools to look at cohort data as students move through schools. Due to the nature of the alternative education programs, the student population is very mobile so the cohorts may not consist of the same students year after year.|Met|2019
35675380000000|San Benito High|6|San Benito High School administers the Healthy Kids Survey every alternate year to all ninth and eleventh-grade students. SBHS had a total of 667 9th grade responses and 557 11th grade responses for the 2017-2018 school year. The majority of all questions on the Healthy Kids Survey are school-specific. The survey provides self-reported data on student engagement (grades, truancy, motivation, connectedness), supports to promote positive academic-social-emotional outcomes (caring adults, high expectations, meaningful participation), and perceived safety (harassment, bullying, violence, and substance use). SBHS students reported the following: School Connectedness- Students reported agree and strongly agree at a notably higher percentage that disagrees and strongly disagree: 9th grade 58% and 11th grade 53%. Meaningful Participation at School- Students reported “Not at all true” and a “little true” at a notably higher percentage that “pretty much true” and “very much true”: 9th grade 49% and 11th grade 58%.  Perceived Safety- Students answered whether they feel safe at school. More than half of the students perceived school as safe or very safe. 61% in 9th grade and 56% in 11th grade.  The Healthy Kids Survey will be administered again in the 2019-20 school year to all 9th and 11th-grade students. Additionally, SBHS has started the implementation (Year 1) of Positive Behavior Intervention Systems (PBIS). The school has two devoted leadership classes who have worked toward supporting a Positive Behavior message through Homeroom lessons, school-wide rules and expectations, as well as increasing regular student recognition. The district will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the PBIS initiative and work of the PBIS leadership classes through our yearly student surveys, Healthy Kids Survey, and School Climate and MTSS data.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
36678760000000|San Bernardino City Unified|6|In 2018-19, the Panorama Education Climate and Culture Survey was administered to 22,730 students in grades 5 through 12. The 5th grade students account for the elementary results, while the 6th-12th grade students account for the Secondary results.  For Elementary students, the favorable Safety opinions have increased by 5 points from 2017-18, with an overall rating of 69% favorable, ranking us in the 70th percentile when compared with CORE districts. The student groups with the lowest rates of favorable responses in the area of safety included  African-American (61%) and Chronically Absent (66%). The elementary overall district results decreased by 4 points to 68% favorable responses in the area of Sense of Belonging/School Connectedness.  However, when compared to CORE districts, we increased to the 20th percentile. The student groups with the lowest rates of favorable responses in this area include Foster (59%) and Special Education (65%) .   At the Secondary level, student opinions of Safety increased from 66% in 2017-18 to 70%, an increase of 4 points putting SBCUSD in the 70th percentile when compared to the CORE districts. Student groups with less favorable opinions of Safety, include Foster (65%), Special Education  (65%) and African-American (63%). For Sense of Belonging/School Connectedness, the student opinion has decreased from 55% in 2017-18 to 54% favorable, resulting in the 30th percentile as compared to CORE districts.  Student groups that fell under the district average with favorable results were Chronically Absent (49%,) African-American (49%), and Foster (53%).  The results indicate there has been work done to increase student sense of safety on campuses across the district.  Schools have implemented revised supervision schedules to ensure students are monitored throughout the school campus. The district Maintenance and Operations department has focused on installing fencing to ensure one-point of entry on all campuses during school hours. In addition, all campuses are utilizing the Raptor sign-in system, in conjunction with a buzz-in system to school offices for all visitors.  Sense of Belonging/School Connectedness is an opportunity for growth within SBCUSD. Over the last two years, a grant has provided School Climate and Culture Coaches from each school site to be trained on Social-Emotional Learning competencies with a focus on Restorative Practices. Working with Panorama Education has also allowed district school Administrators and Counselors to receive training in understanding the survey data, action plan around improvements, and identifying students needing additional support.   The district will continue to respond to student survey results as a way of improving systems at school sites and the district supports offered. Results from the 2019-20 survey will be used to monitor and evaluate effectiveness of the supports, to ensure we create welcoming, safe and nurturing learning environments for all district students.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
36103630000000|San Bernardino County Office of Education|6|In a review of 2018-19 student LCAP surveys, the following findings were present: 87% of students feel that SBCSS schools do a good job of keeping students engaged (interested in learning) 82% of students feel that SBCSS campuses are a place where students feel safe and protected. 84% of students feel that SBCSS schools have enough instructional materials and technology to meet student’s needs. When asked about if they knew the school provided the following services, the following findings were present: 61% of students knew about School Site Council opportunities to provide input 72% of students knew about FREE individual and family counseling sessions 71% of students knew about the varied resources available for homeless students, foster youth and unaccompanied youth and families in need. 81% of students knew that we provide bus passes to students who qualify for transportation assistance. When asked, "I believe this school can better meet the needs of its students because........", the following findings were present: More than 50% of students listed as their top two reasons one of the following: 1. Smaller campuses and smaller class sizes 2. Teachers and staff work hard at building positive relationships with students It is clear from survey results (first and second semesters N = 809) that our students continue to value the services that we provide. We take pride in that our survey results have remained consistently positive over the past three years. Since our surveys are anonymous, we are confident in the reliability of the survey results received, which has a direct impact on the programs/services we provide. Our survey questions (survey instrument) were developed internally with our administrative team to concisely and accurately discern the perceptions and expectations of our students in the core accountability domains (state & local priorities). Our Special Education School staff recognizes the importance of a school climate that is conducive to learning as well. Over the past four years, our Special Education School has implemented Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) across multiple campuses across all three regions. The success of PBIS implementation has resulted in 5 of our school campuses receiving regional recognition as “PBIS Spotlight Schools”. The focus on school climate is important for all students, but imperative for students with disabilities (cognitive, emotional and or physical). As we continuously strive to improve on the services we provide, SBCSS recognizes that having authentic student engagement is critical in order to effectively meet the needs of our student body. One of the greatest challenges we face is how do we balance smaller classroom sizes with the need for ADA generating revenue. This dilemma seems unique to schools in “special settings”. Moving forward, we will have to strategize what effective changes can be made to our programs that will still let us deliver the same high-quality services|2019-10-07||Met|2019
41690130000000|San Bruno Park Elementary|6|All students in fourth through eighth grade completed a district designed survey to provide input on basic services, instructional materials, instruction and culture/climate.  Parents at all schools additionally completed a similar survey. Key findings indicate that the great majority of students feel safe at school, know who to go to when they have a problem and feel that their teacher believes in them.  Comparing the data from students and parents regarding bullying, students indicated minimal incidences of bullying and reported that they are able to get help should bullying happen.  Students at the middle school reported less incidences of bullying, however, parent surveys revealed a far greater perception of bullying, particularly at the middle school.   The survey revealed that less than half of all 4-8th grade students felt that their teacher was willing to help should they struggle academically and only slightly more than half of students felt comfortable asking their teachers for help. Approximately 65% of students felt that they belong and have at least one adult that they can talk to about their problems at school; the number of students feeling that they belonged at the middle school was about 10% less than the overall rate.  The data collected from the internally developed survey did not yield enough information to explore the areas of climate and culture fully.  Hence, a decision was made to utilize the California Healthy Kids survey for the next year's LCAP.  Additionally, the District will conduct an internal audit to determine the effectiveness of the current mental and behavioral health supports and begin exploring options for social emotional learning tiered supports.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
41690216112213|San Carlos Charter Learning Center|6|Data used to evaluate this indicator were collected in our 2018 - 2019 Learner Satisfaction Survey (done in collaboration with Teachers College at Columbia University, administered to all of our 5th-8th grade learners). Generally, Learner responses to indicators relating to school environment have steadily improved over the last three years. The vast majority of learners generally agreed that they felt safe at school (88%/75 responses). Learners agreed with most indicators of school culture at similar rates as previous years. In 2019 learners believed most of their peers were well-behaved (77%/65 responses) as well as that SCC taught them to care about others and treat them with respect (93%/79 responses). Holding constant with 2018 and 2017 patterns, the majority of respondents wanted to stay at SCC until they graduated 8th grade (87%/74 responses) and would recommend SCC to someone else (71%/61 responses). With respect to learner engagement, learners remain fairly positive. While 87% (72 responses) agreed that they were motivated to work hard and do their best in class, one-quarter of the learners disagreed that the topics they were studying were interesting and challenging. Learners agreed they looked forward to their classes at roughly the same rate over the past three years (65%, 70%, and 70% b 2017, 2018, and 2019, respectively). Learners responded very positively to indicators regarding director effectiveness and these numbers have held constant for the past three years. The vast majority of learners generally agreed that they often saw the Executive Director walking around school or going into classrooms (89%/75 responses) and strongly agreed that the Executive Director knew their names (86%/75 responses). Moreover, the generally disagreed that they only interacted with the Executive Director when they were in trouble (72%/60 responses).  Learner responses to indicators of educator effectiveness were mostly positive and consistent with previous years. Nearly all learners (94%/80 responses) agreed that their educators cared about them, believed that all learners can do well in school (94%/80 responses), and treated them with respect (91%/77 responses).|2019-10-09|While data indicate that the school culture is generally very positive, staff will be focusing on re-evaluating and articulating our Social and Emotional Learning program, K - 8. We have many new staff members and we feel it is important to make sure that we all have the same level of understanding of, and training in, this important aspect of our curriculum.|Met|2019
41690210000000|San Carlos Elementary|6|SCSD administers the Panorama Student Survey to students annually and these results are used to shape LCAP goals. The results below (% favorable) were reported by students on the spring 2019 survey and reported to the Board on May 23, 2019. Results for Heather, Central and Arroyo are listed, as these three schools make up the "San Carlos Elementary" Dashboard.   Arroyo Safety: 65% Sense of Belonging: 76% Supportive Relationships: 90%  Heather Safety: 73% Sense of Belonging: 83% Supportive Relationships: 91%  Central Safety: 70% Sense of Belonging: 74% Supportive Relationships: 83%  Goal 4 of SCSD’s LCAP specifically targets student engagement and sense of belonging:  Ensure Equitable Access to Learning for all Students and Increase Student Engagement and Sense of Belonging Within Each School Community. Specific actions have been established to address school climate, sense of belonging, active participation, caring adults and high expectations. Ensuring more student voice and choice, increasing student engagement opportunities and Project-Based Learning, and implementing Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), and beginning to develop a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) across all schools were identified as high impact actions.   In addition, middle schools have started the Where Everybody Belongs (WEB) Program to further enhance the transition to middle school.  Both middle schools are also working with their staff on implementation of restorative circles and implicit bias training.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37683386119168|San Diego Cooperative Charter|6|SDCCS uses the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) as one of the tools to evaluate school climate. In 2019, the SDCCS combined campus elementary school program was surveyed in 5th grade.  Students reported high levels of academic motivation (86%), strong social and emotional learning supports (85%), caring adults in school (82%).  Students that make poor interpersonal choices are counseled and led through a restorative practices process that typically leaves students feeling heard and empowered to grow and change.  In fact 93% of students report feeling treated with respect when thinking about the school rules and how they are redirected.  Suspensions and expulsions are rare and are used only when all options have been exhausted or in extreme / legally mandated instances.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
37103710000000|San Diego County Office of Education|6|Connectedness 84% of students feel connected to teachers and/or staff  85% of adults at my school treat students fairly regardless of race, skin color, religion, gender, gender identity, gender expression or sexual orientation 63% of students feel connected to their peers School Safety  • 87% students perceive the school as safe This data appears to show a strength in the increase of students' feelings of connectivity to both their school and to one another. In addition, it shows that our work in positive school culture is having a great effect on the atmosphere of the school as far as connectedness. The areas for growth appear to be students' connection with one another. This is a challenge that will need to be further investigated.|2019-10-09|This data includes the preliminary results from our 2019-20 Fall Safety Survey from Teachers, Staff and Students.  It measured, in part, School Environment and Culture through student/staff connectedness and perceptions of school safety. This is in leiu of the California Healthy Kids Survey which is a biennial administration. In addition, this is preliminary data from 75% of our LEA; in contrast, the CHKS is only for grades 7, 9, and 11.|Met|2019
37754160138651|San Diego Mission Academy|6|The school is new and will implement their survey in the fall of 2019. The local school climate survey will be given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an online program mainly in high school.  The results will be analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meetings. The faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and will be given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37682130119560|San Diego Neighborhood Homeschools|6||||Not Met|2019
37683380000000|San Diego Unified|6|The district has conducted a census administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) at the secondary level for many years, initially on an every-other-year basis. Starting in 2016, the grade 5 survey was added and a switch was made to annual administration.  Based on 2019 survey results, 76 percent of grade 5 students reported that they feel safe at school most or all of the time. For the secondary level, 57 percent of grade 7 students, 50 percent of grade 9 students, and 52 percent of grade 11 students reported that they feel safe or very safe at school.  The CHKS includes a scale for school connectedness, derived from responses to five survey questions. Elementary schools have a 4-point scale and secondary schools a 5-point scale. For comparison purposes here across grade levels and to the component questions, the scales have been converted to 100 points.  Overall, the school connectedness scale scores were: grade 5 – 75.6; grade 7 – 71.6; grade 9 – 68.8; and grade 11 – 70.2. For the individual questions that contribute to the scale, the results that follow are percentages of students at grade 5 who responded "most or all of the time" and at secondary, students who "agreed or strongly agreed." The results, by question, follow: • "Feel close to people at school" — grade 5 – 54; grade 7 – 69; grade 9 – 62; and grade 11 – 61 • "Happy to be at school" — grade 5 – 70; grade 7 – 59; grade 9 – 52; and grade 11 – 53 • "Feel part of school" — grade 5 – 71; grade 7 – 56; grade 9 – 49; and grade 11 – 50 • "Teachers treat students fairly" — grade 5 – 81; grade 7 – 55; grade 9 – 51; and grade 11 – 57 • "Feel safe at school" — grade 5 – 78; grade 7 – 61; grade 9 – 53; and grade 11 – 60|2019-10-29||Met|2019
37682130123224|San Diego Virtual|6|Each year, SDVS stakeholders participate in an annual survey that encompasses the climate of the school environment. With this survey, SDVS is able to make revisions and focus its attention to areas of growth, constantly improving its program for the students it serves.  Reflecting on the data given from the surveys, 92% of SDVS families feel that their students’ learning environment is personalized according to their educational path, offers clubs and organizations that are interesting for the student, as well as provide a safe online environment that reaches the whole student, rather than just academic goals.  According to the data, SDVS families feel that their child is receiving an excellent education with post graduate counseling, effective online supports benefiting their learning, as well as given the supports necessary toward academic success (i.e., support classes, learning tools, online web conferencing, one-on-one tutoring and support online, CAASPP/ELPAC testing preparation). SDVS is continually building online support to better serve its students, as well as including Juniors and Seniors for college and career counseling to prepare them for post-graduate plans.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
37679830134890|San Diego Workforce Innovation High|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  98% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  93% reported that they felt connected to the school *  96% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37683460000000|San Dieguito Union High|6|SDUHSD uses multiple measures to evaluate school climate including the annual Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) Stakeholder survey, the biennial California Healthy Kids Survey, as well as a multi-year review of public and local data on discipline rates, attendance, and referrals for social-emotional and behavioral interventions.  The 2018-19 LCAP Survey included school climate questions for students, parents, community members, and staff. Overall, stakeholders expressed positive perceptions of school climate and conditions with the majority of stakeholders reporting that schools in SDUHSD are clean and in good condition, safe, and welcoming. Additionally, 81% feel that schools effectively monitor attendance, 83% feel that schools promote students’ health and well-being by promoting physical activity at school, and 71% feel that schools encourage students to participate in extracurricular activities. The majority of stakeholders agree that SDUHSD schools provide adequate supports and services for students in need of academic (69%) or social-emotional (61%) interventions.    SDUHSD schools biennially administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to all students in grades 7, 9, and 11. Based on 2019 survey results, students reported feeling connected at school (70-75%), academically motivated (72-81%), and safe (72-78%). Results show moderate levels of students feeling that they have been bullied or harassed (29-32%), which is in line with statewide secondary levels of reported bullying (28-34% statewide). Students also reported low levels of substance use and mental health concerns at the middle school level. At the high school level, a higher percentage (38%) of students reported current alcohol and/or drug use (at least once within the last 30 days).   Potential areas for improvement related to school climate include: enhancing communication systems, refining systems to identify students in need of social-emotional interventions,  promoting healthy eating habits, implementing alternatives to suspension, and enhancing education and awareness for students and parents related to alcohol, tobacco and other drug (ATOD) use in youth.|2019-10-10|As a result of a review of multiple measures of student wellness and school climate, SDUHSD continued to engage in intensive training and district-wide collaboration to refine and enhance our multi-tiered systems of social-emotional support (SEL MTSS). Through collaboration amongst district and school staff, as well as input from parents and students, SDUHSD created a clear SEL MTSS with specific student supports at each tier and trained all staff in this area. Additionally, the District established district and school site level Safety and Wellness Committees that each meet four times per year. These committees will continue to review district systems and practices related to school climate and student wellness with the goal of making data-driven decisions to refine and enhance student support programs and services for all students at all SDUHSD schools. One such decision was the overhaul of the district’s ATOD program, to become site-based and individualized.  In addition to, or in lieu of disciplinary consequences, SDUHSD assists students by providing them with multi-tiered restorative support services, including alternative to suspension, online modules, and harm reduction model Brief Intervention Sessions that can address potential substance abuse issues.|Met|2019
38103890000000|San Francisco County Office of Education|6|In Spring 2019, San Francisco Unified School District administered a survey to gauge students' social-emotional learning (SEL) skills and their views on school culture/climate. Students who were in 4th-12th grader were eligible to take the survey. Culture/climate surveys are administered to all school staff and families.  Two of the four constructs in the culture/climate survey are Sense of Safety and Sense of Belonging. Participation for Spring 2019 was as follows: 15,748 family surveys completed or approximately 28%; 4,479 staff surveys completed or approximately 77%; 27,545 students completed or 80%. Survey results are broken down by the two grade spans—elementary and secondary schools. Favorable perceptions of SFUSD’s overall culture and climate have remained stable over three years. Sense of Safety: The overall districtwide favorability on safety was 59% for elementary level students; 64% for secondary student. The rate varied across different subgroups. Three racial/ethnic subgroups—Latinx, white, Asian, and students of multiple races—were at or above this district average at elementary; Asian and Pacific Islander students for secondary. The lowest favorability scores for elementary were for African American students, Homeless, students receiving special education, and English Learners, 49%, 50%, 53% and 54%, respectively.  For secondary the lowest favorability scores were for American Indian, African America, Two or more races, White students and students with disabilities, 57%, 58%, for American Indian and African American students respectively and 59% for the three other subgroups.  In response to the specific question “How safe do you feel when you are at school?” elementary student favorability response was 69% and secondary was 61%. In the area of safety, staff reported a 64% favorability rating, parents reported 94%. Sense of Belonging: The overall districtwide favorability on sense of belonging was 73% for elementary level students, 56% for secondary. At the elementary level, White students , Foster Youth, Latinx student had the highest favorability ratings, 78%, 76% and 74% respectively.  Students receiving special education (68%), African American (68%) and Homeless students (70%) had the lowest favorability scores for this construct. At the secondary level, the highest favorability ratings were among English Learners, White students and those students designated “decline to state” at 62%, 61% and 60% respectively.  Secondary students with the lowest favorability ratings were Foster Youth (51%), African American students (51%) and students with two or more races (54%).  In response to the specific question ”At my school, there is a teacher or adult who really cares about me” both elementary and secondary student favorability response was 74%.In the area of sense of belonging, staff reported a 76% favorability rating, parents reported 94%.|2019-10-15|SFUSD and SFCOE report their local measures as one unit based on the operating structure for these LEAs.|Met|2019
38684780000000|San Francisco Unified|6|In Spring 2019, San Francisco Unified School District administered a survey to gauge students' social-emotional learning (SEL) skills and their views on school culture/climate. Students who were in 4th-12th grader were eligible to take the survey. Culture/climate surveys are administered to all school staff and families.  Two of the four constructs in the culture/climate survey are Sense of Safety and Sense of Belonging. Participation for Spring 2019 was as follows: 15,748 family surveys completed or approximately 28%; 4,479 staff surveys completed or approximately 77%; 27,545 students completed or 80%. Survey results are broken down by the two grade spans—elementary and secondary schools. Favorable perceptions of SFUSD’s overall culture and climate have remained stable over three years. Sense of Safety: The overall districtwide favorability on safety was 59% for elementary level students; 64% for secondary student. The rate varied across different subgroups. Three racial/ethnic subgroups—Latinx, white, Asian, and students of multiple races—were at or above this district average at elementary; Asian and Pacific Islander students for secondary. The lowest favorability scores for elementary were for African American students, Homeless, students receiving special education, and English Learners, 49%, 50%, 53% and 54%, respectively.  For secondary the lowest favorability scores were for American Indian, African America, Two or more races, White students and students with disabilities, 57%, 58%, for American Indian and African American students respectively and 59% for the three other subgroups.  In response to the specific question “How safe do you feel when you are at school?” elementary student favorability response was 69% and secondary was 61%. In the area of safety, staff reported a 64% favorability rating, parents reported 94%. Sense of Belonging: The overall districtwide favorability on sense of belonging was 73% for elementary level students, 56% for secondary. At the elementary level, White students , Foster Youth, Latinx student had the highest favorability ratings, 78%, 76% and 74% respectively.  Students receiving special education (68%), African American (68%) and Homeless students (70%) had the lowest favorability scores for this construct. At the secondary level, the highest favorability ratings were among English Learners, White students and those students designated “decline to state” at 62%, 61% and 60% respectively.  Secondary students with the lowest favorability ratings were Foster Youth (51%), African American students (51%) and students with two or more races (54%).  In response to the specific question ”At my school, there is a teacher or adult who really cares about me” both elementary and secondary student favorability response was 74%.In the area of sense of belonging, staff reported a 76% favorability rating, parents reported 94%.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19752910000000|San Gabriel Unified|6|In Spring of 2019, San Gabriel Unified School District administered a School Climate Survey at the High School, Middle School, and Elementary levels.  Results serve to measure the District's progress in State Priority #6: School Climate.    At the High School level 1259 students took the District's Climate Survey. Some key findings were: a) Academic Motivation 78% feel motivated or very motivated about school; b) Safety 76% feel safe or very safe in school; c) Engagement 87% feel engaged in class discussions; d) Bullied 89% of students report they have not been bullied.  At the Middle School level 801 students responded to the survey. Some key findings were: a) Academic Motivation 84% feel motivated or very motivated about school; b) Safety 66% feel safe or very safe in school; c) Engagement 90% feel engaged in learning; d) Bullied 73% of students report they have not been bullied.   At the Elementary School level 420 students responded to the survey. Some key findings were:  a) Academic Motivation 84% feel motivated or very motivated about school; b) Safety 83% feel safe or very safe in school; c) Engagement 92% feel engaged in learning; d) Bullied 73% of students report they have not been bullied.|2019-10-29|Differences in student perceptions of academic motivation, safety, engagement, and bullying exist between the grade levels.  This has been a trend districtwide, statewide, and nationwide.  Elementary and middle school report lower levels of bullying and higher levels of engagement.  It is interesting to note there was a discrepancy in the student perception of school safety at the middle school level with 66% reporting they feel safe or very safe at school in comparison to 76% of high school students and 83% of elementary students. A comparative analysis to 2017 Climate Survey results reveal trends that indicate students are feeling less safe at school even though they are not necessarily experiencing less safe conditions in their learning environment. This data trend is understandable given, in recent years, the national perceptions of school safety.  SGUSD will continue to use Climate Survey data to inform the development of the District’s Local Control Accountability Plan goals for safety and wellness.|Met|2019
33672490000000|San Jacinto Unified|6|In the Winter of 2019, San Jacinto Unified School District administered school climate surveys to students in grades five, seven, ninth, and eleventh via the California Healthy Kids Survey.  Approximately 2,286 surveys were completed. Survey items around School Connectedness and School Safety results are as follows. Data is reported as the percentage of students responding favorably to the items in each area. 86% of elementary students and 46% of secondary students reported favorable perceptions of school safety.  School Connectedness items focus on student impressions of being a part of the school.  30% of elementary students and 30% of secondary students responded strongly agree in this area. The district is addressing these connectedness perception differences as part of efforts to improve student connectedness by organizing a district mentoring program. The Starfish mentoring program has grown to now a team of 70 district staff that now has members outside of the management ranks to include both certificated and classified employees.  To help support School Climate the district is implementing peer transition programs districtwide. By empowering students through programs like The Leader in Me, Challenge Day, and Rachel's Challenge will give them a voice to improve their school's environments. The district is addressing the connectedness concern at the secondary level by implementing the following programs for students. Building Assets, Reducing Risks (BARR) for Freshmen students. BARR provides schools with a comprehensive, intentional approach to meeting students' academic, social, and emotional needs. At the core of the BARR program are eight interconnected research-based strategies that provide a wide-ranging structure and support system. In the BARR model, teachers are placed in teams. Each team consists of three core-subject teachers (math, science, and English). BARR helps educators build safe, strong, trusting relationships with their students and paves the way for every student to engage in learning.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
33672496114748|San Jacinto Valley Academy|6|School Climate Indicators: Score 0-10 Overall, SJVA’s elementary has seen a positive growth in the results of the Healthy Kids Survey. Areas that have seen significant growth compared to 2018 for middle and high school are in the area of overall school climate , school support and engagement, high expectations and caring relationships, and low violence and substance use (middle school). Elementary’s results remained relatively the same as the previous year.  SJVA is committed to further developing a school climate that is positive, safe, and welcoming. SJVA has an ongoing focus to further developing engaging and supportive relationships with all stakeholders.    Elementary School Climate Indicators: Score 0-100 School Connectedness: SJVA: 73  Caring Relationships:  SJVA: 80                High Expectations: SJVA: 91  Low Violence Perpetration:  SJVA: 75  Middle School Climate Index : 100-500 SJVA: 329  School Support and Engagement SJVA: 362  High Expectations and Caring Relationships: SJVA: 362  Low Violence and Substance Use SJVA: 292  High  School Climate Index : 100-500 School Climate Index SJVA: 267  School Support and Engagement SJVA: 280  High Expectations and Caring Relationships SJVA: 336  Low Violence and Substance Use SJVA: 263  House System San Jacinto Valley Academy’s Middle School has implemented a house system to develop a strong and healthy school culture with a focus on college and career readiness. The house system aims to provide a sense of community and excitement to attend post-secondary institutions. For the three years of middle school, students are assigned to one of four houses; UCI, UCSD, UCLA, or UCR. Each week time is dedicated to meet with teachers, counselors, and fellow students to foster relationships and discuss topics related to overall student health and wellness. In addition to these regular meetings, each house competes to be the reigning House for the year by earning points for GPA, attendance, citizenship, house games, and overall participation in school events. Our students travel with their house to universities and colleges each year, giving our students the opportunity to see and experience post-secondary campuses and communities in our area. SJVA’s house system is an integral part in the success of our students as it fosters a culture that focuses on the well-bein of the whole student: academically, socially, and emotionally.|2019-10-24|Deans and Counselors  Twice a week Deans and counselors meet and review various data points regarding student academic and emotional well-being and success. From these meetings action plans are developed and carried out throughout the week(s) and updated each time deans and counselors meet. Actions plans consist of informal meetings with students to more detailed and focused conferences with teachers, students, and parents.   Progressive Discipline A detailed progressive discipline plan has been developed and equates to eligibility in participating in extracurricular activities. This plan helps to define and measure specific expectations that each and every student must abide by if they desire to participate in extracurricular activities and events.  Organizational Structure  SJVA has established an organizational structure that is conducive to a positive and safe learning environment. A school leadership team is in place that consists of grade level leads, learning community coordinators, deans, administration, supervision, operations, and office staff. The leadership team plays an important role in establishing and keeping a positive and proactive school environment.   Culture and Climate Committee  SJVA has established a culture and climate committee made up of staff from various grade levels to develop and implement effective strategies to create a safer and more inviting environment that is conducive to high academic achievement and growth.|Met|2019
39103970121723|San Joaquin Building Futures Academy|6|A survey, which was given across each grade span regarding local climate and perceptions of school safety, seems to indicate a strong agreement that San Joaquin Building Futures Academy has made safety a top priority.  93% of students and parents surveyed strongly agreed, agreed or were neutral in their belief that the school is a safe place to learn. Further, respecting the differences of others appeared to be appreciated and an acceptable norm at BFA.  94% of parents and students surveyed strongly agreed, agreed, or were neutral regarding the school respecting all cultures and diversity of students. In regards to school connectedness, 95% of parents/students strongly agree, agree or were neutral in their opinion that the school valued their input.   It is recommended that BFA staff and students review these topics (climate safety, diversity, and connectedness) in more depth and identifying processes that include providing support to the site if a student reports not feeling safe or has concerns about how students may be treated based with respect to culture or diversity.  Additional professional development in these areas will enhance teacher and staff response to a positive and safe school environment.  Also, a more specific survey tailored to the needs of BFA staff, students and families is needed.|2019-09-16||Met|2019
39103970000000|San Joaquin County Office of Education|6|The results from the latest California Healthy Kids Survey administered in the fall of 2017 with students enrolled in the San Joaquin County Office of Education Court and Community Schools revealed a number of meaningful data points. 95% of students polled responded that they feel safe at their school. Similarly, 79% of students believe teachers treat them fairly. In terms of academic motivation, 89% of students responded strongly agree, agree, or were neutral when asked if they “are always trying to do better in my schoolwork.” Many of our students have had significant gaps in their learning and it is promising to know they are still intent on improving their academic circumstances. 88% of students believe “there is a teacher or some other adult who always wants me to do my best.” Ensuring student voice and choice is present in all classrooms and is an integral part of establishing strong school culture. 52% of our students indicated they are not involved in deciding class activities or rules. This is an area that will continue to be reviewed and addressed within the scope of our Positive Behavior and Intervention Strategies (PBIS).|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19650946023527|San Jose Charter Academy|6|At the end of the 2018-19 school year, grades 3-8 took The Leader In Me (TLIM) student climate survey on school culture, drawing information about student perception of school safety and student connectedness.  Students in the same grades also took the CORE Social Emotional Learning Survey (Core SEL), which was a new additional survey seeking more information about student social emotional wellness.  We had taken the Qualtrics Survey for a number of years, but were looking for a survey that would yield more specific results regarding their sense of safety and community that we could learn about and act on. The TLIM Survey inquired students about their sense of connection to SJCA by asking them to rate themselves on questions such as:  I’m an important part of this school; I feel like I am a part of this school; People at this school understand me as a person; Perception of themselves as leaders; Leadership contributions to the school; Personal effectiveness- action setting goals and persistence.  76% percent of students indicated they felt they were successful in these areas. In the new CORE SEL Survey, students yielded new findings that opened doors for conversations about connecting our community.  This self-reported inventory of social emotional wellness in the following domains:  Self-management, Growth mindset, Self-efficacy; Social awareness; Culture and climate. 83% of elementary and 63% of junior academy students met or exceeded perceptions in these areas.   In looking at the findings, elementary students scored their strongest scores in the domain of culture and climate. Within this domain their findings indicate that  they felt teachers worked hard to help them in school when needed, which was their strongest statement.  Elementary students also feel like they are part of this school and that they are treated fairly.   The same domain was the strongest for junior academy students, who also indicated culture and climate as the strongest domain at 85% proficiency stating they were happy to be at this school.   When it came to findings on weakest perceptions, 73% of elementary students indicated that their area of opportunity is the domain of social awareness.  Findings show that they perceive they are weakest in their ability to describe their feelings.  However they indicated their strength in this domain is in being respectful of others’ views.   The junior academy findings show the largest area of opportunity to be self-efficacy.  Within this domain, a similar theme to the elementary students of being able to describe their feelings.  Another opportunity is within the area of resilience, as many of their perceptions are that they struggle in mastering hard topics in classes and doing well on tests even when they are difficult. The Core SEL directly asked about how safe students feel at school.  93% of our elementary students report they feel safe or very safe while at school.  78% of junior academy students feel safe or very while at s|2019-10-09|We continually seek input and feedback from our families using informal polling, open questionnaires and engage families in structured conversations through our parent service organizations.  While our annual surveys provide relevant feedback, it is the on-going, two-way partnership that guides us in addressing both immediate and long-term needs.|Met|2019
43694274330676|San Jose Conservation Corps Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
43696660000000|San Jose Unified|6|San José Unified School District uses an annual student climate survey to measure student safety and connectedness. In 2018-19, 85% of elementary students, 85% of middle school students, and 91% of high school students rated their schools as a medium or high safe environment. This means that students report that their school is safe always or most of the time. In 2018-19, 84% of elementary school students, 85% of middle school students and 86% of high school students report that they feel connected to their teacher, classmates, and school. Based on the results from the climate survey, SJUSD meets standard for school climate. Although SJUSD meets standard on school climate, there will still be initiatives to continue to improve this area. SJUSD continues to implement and expand the PBIS (Positive Behavioral Intervention Support) at school sites. Twenty staff members have been trained to become trainers of Therapeutic Crisis Intervention (TCI) to support students in classrooms. To bolster SJUSD's ongoing work in implementing positive behavior supports across the district, we applied for and were awarded a grant through the Learning Communities for School Success Program to expand implementation of positive school climates and restorative justice methodologies to better support students. All of our schools continue to focus on improving student engagement in the classroom as a means to improve the classroom environment and student connections to their learning.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
34674473430758|San Juan Choices Charter|6|A school-developed survey is administered annually to all staff and parents and to students in grades 7-12.  This survey includes items in a variety of domains with some parallel items appearing on two or all of the surveys. One section addresses parent engagement and has been used for several years, allowing for the identification of trends over time. In 2018-19, the survey response rate was approximately 92%. CCS is consistently searching for new ways to learn new tactics on how to better engage underrepresented families. Professional development in area such as "Understanding Poverty" and "Working with students suffering from anxiety" have helped us better understand the needs of at-risk students and families. Additionally, events where families are invited to share their thoughts, perceptions, and recommendations to staff are held each year, documented, and used to guide future professional development. Key Findings - School Safety: 96.21% of responding students indicated they felt safe at Choices.  Key Findings – Learning Environment: 97.72% of responding students state their education has become more personalized at Choices Charter School. Key Findings - Student Connectedness through Caring Relationships: 98% of students responding indicated the Choices staff is caring and responsive to student needs. Key Findings – as self-reported student anxiety levels increase, the CCS staff is committed to finding better ways to help students overcome these issues and be successful in their academics.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
34674470000000|San Juan Unified|6|School Safety: 79.0% of students agreed/strongly agreed that they felt safe on campus.  81.3% of the schools (where at least 20% of the students participated in the survey) had at least 75% of the students agree/strongly agree that they felt safe on campus. The results varied by school type (97% of Elementary Schools, 100% of the K-8 schools, 75% of the middle schools and 58% of the high schools) and by poverty level (85% of low density schools, 80% of the medium density –non title schools and 82% of the title 1 schools).   Student Connectedness through Meaningful Participation: 70.7% of students agreed/strongly agreed that they felt connected to school because of their meaningful participation.  50.0% of the schools (where at least 20% of the students participated in the survey) had at least 75% of the students agreed/strongly agreed that they felt connected to school because of their meaningful participation. The results varied by school type (77% of Elementary Schools, 25% of the K-8 schools, 13% of the middle schools and 17% of the high schools) and by poverty level (50% of low density schools, 57% of the medium density –non title schools and 43% of the title 1 schools).   Student Connectedness through High Expectations/Caring Relationships:  78.0% of students agreed/ strongly agreed that they felt connected to school due to high expectations and caring relationships.  81.2% of the schools (where at least 20% of the students participated in the survey) had at least 75% of the students agree/strongly agree that they felt connected to school due to high expectations and caring relationships. The results varied by school type (100% of Elementary Schools, 100% of the K-8 schools, 50% of the middle schools and 50% of the high schools) and by poverty level (94% of low density schools, 74% of the medium density –non title schools and 86% of the title 1 schools).   School Culture:  67.4% of students agreed/strongly agreed that they felt a part of a positive school culture.  50.0% of the schools (where at least 20% of the students participated in the survey) had at least 75% of the students agree/strongly agree that they felt a part of a positive school culture.  The results varied by school type (84% of Elementary Schools, 13% of the K-8 schools, 75% of the middle schools and 25% of the high schools) and by poverty level (50% of low density schools, 52% of the med –non title schools and 52% of the title 1 schools).|2019-10-22|Rationale:  A district developed survey is administered annually to all staff, parents, and students in grades 4 – 12.  This survey includes items in a variety of domains with some parallel items appearing on two or all of the surveys.  The following are four sets of questions that are used to address LCAP outcomes for school climate: school safety, student connectedness through meaningful participation, student connectedness through high expectations and caring relationships, and school culture.  The survey is administered anonymously and respondents are not asked to self-identify demographics or program participation.  For that reason, we disaggregate results by school type (elementary, K-8, middle, high) and school poverty level (Title 1, 40 – 70% poverty, less than 40% poverty).  These results were based on responses from 17,575 students (approximately 68% of the eligible students).  Results from District Surveys were presented to the Board of Education on March 13, 2018. The minutes from the Board meetings can be found at https://www.sanjuan.edu/Page/361.|Met|2019
01612910000000|San Leandro Unified|6|In February 2019, San Leandro USD conducted a survey to our Elementary, Middle and High School students. The main purpose of the survey is to collect opinions, perspectives, attitudes, and perceptions of our students regarding their schools and their learning.  Below are the data from the survey:   Elementary Schools:  School connectedness 70.00%; Academic motivation 85.00%; Caring adult relationships 72.00%; High expectations 84.00%;  Meaningful participation 42.00%; Facilities upkeep 66.00%; Parent involvement in school 76.00%; Social and emotional learning supports 75.00%; Anti-bullying climate 74.00%; Feel safe at school 73.00%; Been hit or pushed 44.00%; Mean rumors spread about you 51.00%; Called bad names or target of mean jokes 57.00%; Saw a weapon at school 11.00%; Students well behaved 42.00%; Students treated fairly when breaking rules 54.00%; Students treated with respect 83.00%; Experienced Sadness 18.00%  Middle Schools:  School connectedness 55%; Academic motivation 72%; Chronic truancy (twice a month or more often) 2%; Caring adult  relationships 55%; High expectations 70%; Meaningful participation 25%; Facilities upkeep 33%; Parent involvement in school 51%;  School perceived as very safe or safe 55%; Experienced any harassment or bullying 40%;  Had mean rumors or lies spread about you 41%; Been afraid of being beaten up 26%;  Been in a physical fight: 20%; Seen a weapon on campus 17%; Current alcohol or drug use 8%; Current marijuana use 4%; Current binge drinking 1%; Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times, ever 2%; Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 3%; Current cigarette smoking 1%;  Current electronic cigarette use 4% Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 35%; Considered suicide 19%;   High Schools:  School connectedness 48%; Academic motivation 67%; Chronic truancy (twice a month or more often) 7%; Caring for adult relationships 54%; High expectations 64%; Meaningful participation 16%,  Facilities upkeep 35%;  Parent involvement in school 38%; School perceived as very safe or safe 50% Experienced any harassment or bullying 29% Had mean rumors or lies spread about you 29%; Been afraid of being beaten up 12%; Been in a physical fight 8%, Seen a weapon on campus 12%; Current alcohol or drug use 19% Current marijuana use 14%; Current binge drinking 4%; Very drunk or “high” 7 or more timed. I ever 11%; Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 13%, Current cigarette smoking 1%; Current electronic cigarette use 10%; Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 36%,Considered suicide 17%  Our survey results show that we still have work to do in terms of fostering students’ feelings of connectedness and safety, especially as students move to middle or high school. We continue to embed social and emotional learning in academic instruction in all grade levels.|2019-10-08|This information is based on the California Healthy Kids Survey which was administered during the 2018-2019 school year to all students in grades five, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, ten and 11th grades attending San Leandro Unified School District.|Met|2019
01613090000000|San Lorenzo Unified|6|During the Fall of the 2018-19 school-year, SLzUSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11. A total of 2210 students took the CHKS, comprising 70% of all students in grade 5, 7, 9 and 11. After analysis by our Data and Assessment Department, our Educational Leadership Team and the Superintendent’s Cabinet, key findings were presented to site principals. Some of our key findings are as follows: The percentage of students who perceive that their school sites have caring adults varies, with 80% of grade 5 students indicating this statement is very much or pretty much true, but just 48% of grade 9 students stating such. 56% of grade 7 students and 55% of grade 11 students report that there are caring adults in their schools. Student perception of school connectedness also varies by grade level, with 70% of grade 5 students strongly agreeing or agreeing, while just 54% of grade 7 students, 53% of grade 9 students and 43% of grade 11 students reporting feelings of school connectedness. There are also varying student perceptions for social and emotional learning supports at their schools, with 77% of grade 5 students strongly agreeing or agreeing, as opposed to 45% of grade 7 students, 34% of grade 9 students and 31% of grade 11 students. Based upon this data, multiple inquiry/planning sessions were held with site Principals, APs and Counselors, and the Middle School Task Force spearheaded a process to pilot and adopt a middle school social-emotional curriculum, Character Strong. For the 2019-20 school year, all middle school students will receive instruction in this area. We have further strengthened our work around Racial Equity as a district-wide goal, focusing effort on our work with Courageous Conversations/Pacific Education Group. We have employed teachers at each site to lead professional development and implementation of Restorative Practices. We continue to see a steady drop in our suspension/expulsion rates over the past 10 years, yet there is still disproportionality for African-American students and Students with Disabilities. All elementary schools engage in a social-emotional curriculum, such as Responsive Classroom, Toolbox and Soul Shoppe. We continue to convene monthly professional development sessions with administrators and staff using our Anti-Bias Framework that includes action steps for creating positive school and classroom culture and climate. The CHKS will also be re-administered to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 in November/December of 2019 and we plan to analyze these results and compare them to the 2018-19 results to ascertain the effectiveness of the programs we have implemented.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
44698070000000|San Lorenzo Valley Unified|6|In the fall of 2018, students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 in San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District took the California Healthy Kids Survey. This survey measures student engagement and supports, school safety and substance abuse, mental and physical health. For student connection to and engagement with school, the following data was reported (% who marked “all of the time” or “most of the time”): --"I am happy to be at this school." Grade 5: 58%: Grade 7: 50%: Grade 9: 58%: Grade 11: 58% --"I feel safe at my school." Grade 5: 71%: Grade 7: 60%: Grade 9: 66%: Grade 11: 75% --"At school, there is an adult who really cares about me." Grade 5: 76%: Grade 7: 60%: Grade 9: 48%: Grade 11: 66% For student safety at school, the follow data was reported (% who marked “all of the time” or “most of the time”): --“How safe do you feel when you are at school?” Grade 5: 71%: Grade 7: 60%: Grade 9: 66%: Grade 11: 75%. SLVUSD will be administering this survey again in the 2020-2021 school year.  The students also took the Gallup Poll in the fall of 2018 in grades 5-12. Each result gives the percentage of students who reported a positive response School Site BCE 17 BCE 18 SLVE 17 SLVE 18 SLVMS 17     SLVMS 18    SLVHS 17 SLVHS 18 Engagement 63      69          59        71         48             63              39              58 Hope         53         76             48        80          50             74              50              71 Entrepreneurial  Aspiration        47      35         40            37         37             22        31              13 Career and  Financial  Literacy         60      49           67        57        62             55        70              62  Engagement: The involvement in and enthusiasm for school.  Hope: The ideas and energy students have for the future.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration: The talent and energy for building businesses that survive, thrive and employ others.  Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.  We have noticed a dip in some categories of both the CHKS.  In response we have added additional support at sites including counseling interns on staff, a positive behavior coach for both elementary sites, and a positive school culture advisor position to support the MS and HS, moved our PBIS program up to include the SLVMS.  SLVMS and SLVHS is also looking at restorative justice protocols.  Additional data will be collected via our own surveys to gauge effectiveness of these programs, in addition to continuing the CHKS.  We are working to increase our college and career education including financial literacy by bringing programs that support those ideas to all sites.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
27661830000000|San Lucas Union Elementary|6|The LEA administers the school climate survey in the spring of even numbered years. The last survey was given in Spring 2018, and the next will be this coming Spring 2020.   Based on 208/19 surveys passed out to families and reviewing at the LCAP review of the School Site Council, which also serves as the LCAP Committee, 100% of families surveyed feel the school maintains a positive climate. A significant majority of parents surveyed also found that the school gives the students access to a course of study that will help them succeed in high school, that students have good attendance, that the school is in good repair, and that the parents participate in their children's education.  A key learning discovered from these surveys was that parents felt communication could be improved. As a result, the school district adopted a district-wide texting and email system that sends out all school related announcements for the 19/20 school year.    Based on disaggregated statewide test results in both English Language Arts and Math, students with disabilities and students, students who are English language learners, and student who are economically disadvantaged are scoring similarly to their peers who do not have disabilities, who are native English speakers, and who are not economically disadvantaged. This reflects the LEA"s dedication to ensuring equitable access to education. This dedication is reflected in the positive outlook that 100% of our surveyed families found the school to have a positive climate.  More than half of the student body participates daily in the Afterschool Education and Safety program. The entire junior high participates in a school counseling program, and less than 5% of the student body works with a Monterey County Behavioral Health therapist.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
40688090000000|San Luis Coastal Unified|6|San Luis Coastal USD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2017/2018 school year. Results served to measure the district progress on state priority #6 on School climate. Because of the recalibration of norms by Wested, the survey developer, overall results for 2018 cannot be compared to those reported previously. Differences in student perceptions of connectedness and school safety 73% of 7th graders reported feeling very safe, while 60% of 9th graders and 50% of 11th graders reported the same. Seventh and ninth graders reported a higher level of school connectedness and safety than eleventh graders. Thirty four percent of 7th graders, 30% of 9th graders and 34% of 11th graders reported being bullied or harassed. Actions being taken include the forming of a student senate for students in grades 7-12 with representatives from all district secondary schools. This group works with the superintendent to conduct a Youth Truth survey and to share results with administrators and teachers from their schools. This has led to concrete actions on part of staff to respond to student concern. 1. All Secondary Staffs Trained by County Behavioral Health on Drug Use and Prevention in our student population. 2. All Secondary Health Teachers, Counselors and Coaching Staff receive intense training on effective, researched-based curriculum designed to reduce drug and alcohol use among students (pending). 3. Consistent across secondary schools presentations to students regarding the health hazards associated with Vaping. 4. District-wide focus on Equity and Civil Discourse in part designed to ensure that all students, regardless of race, gender or gender identity, sexuality, or ethnicity feel connected to their school as a valued member of the student body. 5. Partnership with local Agency to work with students at the secondary level on Social Emotional Learning, self-worth, caring of others. 6. Perceived Safety: School site construction at both high schools includes new fencing and more centralized entry points passing through administrative buildings. District safety plans will be reviewed with local fire and police departments. 7. Cyber Bullying: Implement updated health curriculum for grades 7 and 9 with new information and lessons regarding cyber bullying.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
40104050000000|San Luis Obispo County Office of Education|6|As the LEA reflected on the data from the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), we learned that the staff needed to do a better job at establishing, maintaining and restoring relationships with students. It was also reported by students that their meaningful participation in school needed improvement. The drug and alcohol use issues were reported to be in the high range. This data confirmed the results discovered in our 2018 WASC Self-Study. CHKS results also substantiated that students feel safe on campus. We used this information to drive the actions and services in our LCAP, which also mirrors our WASC action plan. The revisions, decisions and actions that the LEA has implemented are based upon the 2018 WASC Self-Study which resulted in the development of the WASC action plan that outlines seven critical areas for focus: use of disaggregated data to improve student instructional practices; comprehensive professional development plan; outreach strategies for parents/guardians; classroom management and student engagement; student morale; academic rigor; and implementation of common core state standards. The CHKS results confirmed the need for focus on these critical areas. Actions were implemented starting in August 2018 and the LEA is currently gathering data to measure the impact of the actions.  Starting in the Fall of 2018, a focus was made on meeting students' basic needs, especially in the areas of behavior and social emotional well-being. Positive Behavioral Interventions & Supports (PBIS) and social emotional curriculum were built into the daily schedule. Teachers received ongoing training in positive interventions, including the use of a level system, and participated in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs). Students participated in targeted Tier 2 and 3 interventions for behavior. The PBIS School Climate Survey was given to students in the Fall of 2018 with a score of 2.27 out of 4.0. It was given again in the Spring of 2019 with a score of 2.62 out of 4.0. Increases were noted in all areas with a significant increase in "teachers treat me with respect" and "I know an adult at school that I can talk with if I need help." SLOCOE received Silver recognition from the State for its implementation of PBIS.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
37737910000000|San Marcos Unified|6|2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey Results                  Percent Feeling Connected                                                             Percent Feeling Safe Grade High   Moderate       Low                                                High  Moderate       Low 5         61          36               3                                                          84         13               3 7         62          31               7                                                       70         24               6 9         56          37               8                                                          64         30               6 11         46          43              11                                                         59         33               8                                  Percent Feeling Connected                                             Percent Feeling Safe  Race/Ethnicity        Grade 7 Grade 9 Grade 11                                  Grade 7   Grade 9    Grade 11 Hispanic/Latino 67          60         55                                           70           59            56  Amer. Indian         59          62         72                                           65           69            77  Asian                 73          68         59                                           82           69            63 African Amer.         59          57         54                                           52           59            63 Pacific Islander 78          65         45                                           82           63            42 White                 73          71         64                                           72           70            61  Mixed Races         66          61         57                                           69           59             60   Overall students at each grade level feel safer than they do connected at school.  Both measures decrease as students matriculate to the higher grade levels.  Compared to the last survey results, there is a positive trend of students feeling more connected to school (+4 at grades 5 and 11 are highly connected and all grade levels show a slightly lower level of students in the low category of feeling connected).  There is a trend of students feeling less safe at grade 7 and 11 (-3% and -11% respectively) and a  trend of students feeling more safe at grade 9 (+3%).  Grade 5 showed a minor change of -1% feeling safe.  Our African American subgroup (1.9% of our total population) feels less connected at every grade level surveyed than other subgroups.  Latino and African American students feel less safe at two grade levels.  Grade 11 Pacific Islanders report lower in both areas.  Focus groups may help to inform our actions.  Positive behavioral interventions and restorative practices  have been implemented District-wide. Every school uses a social-emotional learning curriculum facilitated by social workers at the sites.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19649640000000|San Marino Unified|6|The San Marino Unified School District (SMUSD) administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) through WestEd for the 2018-19 school year. In total, 835 students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 responded to the core module survey (G5=135, G7=208, G9=262, G11=230). Through a careful review of the summary of key indicators, overall 67.5% of students who responded indicated having a high degree of “School Connectedness” (G5=82%, G7=67%, G9=59%, G11=62%). Additionally, 78.75% of students who responded indicated “School perceived as very safe or safe" (G5=96%, G7=71%, G9=72%, G11=76%). The SMUSD remains focused to ensure students feel safe and connected at school. As such, we continue to look for ways to enhance wellness through the Wellness Task Force made up of staff, parents and students. Additionally, we continue to increase access to our high school wellness center to meet the needs of our students who are dealing with increasing levels of stress and anxiety. We will continue to refine practices, and increase supports where we are able in order to reverse the trend of student perceptions regarding school safety and connectedness.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
41104130000000|San Mateo County Office of Education|6|In the Court and Community programs we continue to recognize that School Climate is of concern. This was validated by ongoing data that shows high suspension rates at both of our primary campuses: that of Hillcrest School at the Juvenile Detention Facility and that of Gateway Community School. In both cases, students were often suspended both by the staff at Gateway and by the Probation Department's determination at Hillcrest. The dashboard data on suspension rates for each school is accurate. In the 2018 - 2019 year, staff became trained on Restorative Practices as a way to restore students when agitated. The concept is then to place them back into the classroom environment rather than to suspend students. We have started implementing new strategies to stop the high suspension rates. And we continue to train new staff in these practices.|2019-10-16|Both the data reflected on the Dashboard as well as a student survey done in the spring 2019 reflect that school climate is an ongoing issue. We recognize the high amount of suspensions, but in looking deeper, we found students were not always having their academic needs met - particularly at Gateway Community School. In the student survey, students felt they were less listened to and felt that they had fewer options to voice concern at Gateway. At Hillcrest, the results were better. In working to resolve these issues, we have changed staffing at all schools so that there are more adults available for students at Gateway. This should allow for more adult interaction as needed and more support for students to feel heard and to feel respected, thereby increasing a positive school climate.|Met|2019
41690470000000|San Mateo Union High|6|The SMUHSD has elected to administer the CA Healthy Kids Survey as its local climate measure. The baseline data for the current data were set in the winter of 2016, when the survey was last administered. The Data was reviewed in the winter of 2019 as well as part of a larger report on student wellness and parent engagement data review. In addition to reviewing and taking action on the overall survey results (that will be complete in the late fall of 2019), the District is paying particular attention to the following specific areas of the survey due to parent/student feedback garnered as part of the LCAP engagement process: - The percentage of students reporting that they are "feeling sad” will decrease by 5% (in relation to 2017-18 administration) on the next administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey - In addition, there will be a decrease of 10% in the number of students reporting drug/alcohol use - as reported on CA Healthy Kids Survey ("Other Local Measure"). - Finally, students will report on Healthy Kids survey that measures of contentedness will be improved on the 2019-20 administration (over the 2018-19 survey results).   The District has used this data to inform decisions about the allocation of wellness support resources as well as the identification of some new short-term interventions to support students - especially as relates to drug/alcohol/tobacco/vape use and alternatives to suspension.|2019-10-24|The District is engaged, during the 2019-20 school year (and for the next few years) on a new initiative to norm across all school sites and the classrooms in those schools, the key academic and social-emotional supports that will be available to ALL students. This includes those supports that will exist in each classroom as well as other venues at each school.  While this work will take time, it is essential to ensuring that students have a guaranteed and universal set of supports everyday in every class.|Met|2019
41690390000000|San Mateo-Foster City|6|Our 5th and 7th grade students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), and the results were reported to site leadership, teachers, and the board of trustees. In order to focus efforts and align priorities with the district’s Local Control Accountability Plan, key findings related to school connectedness and school safety were closely examined.   Although the majority of surveyed 5th grade students (76%) reported feelings of school connectedness “Most” or “All” of the time, there was a slight reduction (-6%.) in the percentage of students feeling “High” overall levels of school connectedness (52%). Similarly, the majority (55%) of 7th Grade students “Agreed” or “Strongly Agreed” to have experienced instances of school connectedness, but there was a reduction (-9%.) in the percentage of students reporting “High” overall levels of school connectedness (43%).      In relation to school safety, 83% of 5th grade students reported feeling safe “most” or “all” of the time. However, this was a slight reduction from the last survey (-4%.). Likewise, the majority of 7th grade students feel safe at school “most” or “all” of the time (56%), but this was a reduction from the previous survey (-9%.).|2019-10-24|Overall ratings of school connectedness and sense of safety remain high for SMFCSD students, but the decrease in the highest ratings suggest that current supports and services are not keeping pace with the increase in students’ social-emotional needs, perhaps especially for our middle school students.  These findings demonstrate the need for continued and strengthened support for student wellness, social-emotional learning, and mental health services.  In addition to the continuing actions and services outlined within Goal 3 of our Local Accountability Plan (e.g. increased counseling supports and services to targeted students at middle and elementary schools), we have added two new actions (3.2.6 and  3.2.7). Together, these actions will provide increased social emotional supports to Foster Youth, Homeless, and Newcomer students through case management services and site-based support meetings. Lastly, we have begun to explore alternative measurement tools through partnerships with EVS and the CORE districts in order to provide actionable data regarding the social-emotional well-being of a larger portion of our student population.|Met|2019
49708056051858|San Miguel Elementary|6|The Climate Survey, which was developed by the school site councils and aligned with the BEST program, a Parent Survey, discipline data and counselor’s data, indicate that students increased access to needed supports at school in the 2018-2019 school year.  There was an increased level of school counseling requested on behalf of students, which appears to be related to the wildfires experienced during the previous school year.  Yet, positive school-wide behavior support systems appear to be working, as instances of bullying behavior did not show an increase.  Schools will continue to effectively use the counseling program (at least one counselor/intern available at schools daily), Second Step violence prevention program, Tool Box program, and the Building Effective Schools Together school climate framework to maintain a positive school climate.  Given the recurrence of wildfires in October 2019, it is expected to create an increased ongoing school counseling need for students.  Additional counselor interns will be sought during the spring of 2020, in an effort to expand the program to address ongoing student counseling needs.|2019-12-04||Met|2019
40688250000000|San Miguel Joint Union|6|Students in grades 3-5 were given the LCAP Elementary Student Survey and students in grades 6-8 were given the Middle School LCAP survey which measured student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. 84% of the elementary students reported that they felt like their teachers cared about them. Over 91% said their teachers make learning fun and over 87% feel that their teachers believe they can succeed. 84% of students say that they can approach their teachers for help during class or before or after class when they need help. 78% of our elementary students say they have at least one caring adult that they can talk to at school. Over 86% of students report that they reach out to teachers, administrators, or staff if they feel bullied. About 6% say they would not tell someone at school if they were bullied. 52% of students feel safe at school all of the time, 29% of students feel safe at school most of the time, and 9% of students feel safe some of the time. 59% of students say the grounds are clean, safe, functional, and fun.   65% of middle school students surveyed feel that their teachers care about them. 27% were not sure. About 87% of students in grades 6-8 say that their teachers make learning fun at least some of the time. 74% of students say they feel their teachers believe that they can succeed. 91% of students report that their teachers will take the time to explain things in a different way if they do not understand and over 83% say their teachers are available for questions or help before class, during class, or after class. 64% of middle school students report having at least one caring adult that they can turn to if they need help or someone to talk to. 78% of students in grades 6-8 believe it is important to come to school every day. 70% of these students say they feel safe at school most of the time. 33% feel safe at all times and 37% feel safe most of the time. 44% report that the school grounds are clean, safe, functional, and fun.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
37683530000000|San Pasqual Union Elementary|6|Students at San Pasqual Union School generally feel safe and connected within the school as evidenced by the results of the 2019 California Healthy Kids Survey.  The results of that survey, including change from prior year (noted in parentheses) revealed the following: 5th Grade Results • 87% feel safe at school (+8%) • 78% report the school helps students resolve conflicts with one another (+1%) • 50% feel close to people at school (-6%) • 81% feel like they are a part of the school (+4%) • 89% feel proud to belong to their school (+4%) • 98% report that teachers and other grown-ups make it clear that bullying is NOT allowed (+3%) 7th Grade Results  • 87% feel safe at school (+17%) • 72% report that the teachers at this school treat students fairly (+13%) • 83% feel close to people at school (+8%) • 75% feel like they are a part of the school (+8%) • 31% report they do things at school that make a difference  (-15%)  • 26% report that they have been cyberbullied within the past 12 months (-7%) Based on the trend towards students feeling safer and more connected within the school environment, it appears the efforts to improve social-emotional well-being, including PBIS, Trauma Informed Care, Restorative Practices, and character-building, have been effective.    While these trends are encouraging, there are still some areas of concern.  For example, only half of our 5th graders (down 6% from the previous year) reporting feeling “close” to people at school.  While this could be question-based semantics, it is worth exploring why students who overwhelmingly report feeling happy at school (93%) and part of the school (84%) also report a lack of closeness to others.        In middle school, it is encouraging to see that nearly all students (87%) feel safe at school, an increase of 17% from the previous year.  Similarly, while it is encouraging to see a 7% drop in cyberbullying, it remains troubling that over ¼ of students report being cyberbullied within the past 12 months with few of these incidents reported to school officials.  In conjunction with other local school districts, San Pasqual Union has implemented the “Say Something” online reporting system.  In addition to educating students on the dangers and consequences of such behavior, the program will provide students with both the means and encouragement to report incidents of cyberbullying whether or not they are a victim.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
13632140000000|San Pasqual Valley Unified|6|The District surveyed students in grades 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 using the California Healthy Kids Survey.  The survey indicated that all grades levels surveyed felt connected to the school between 50 and 75% of the time.  The main concerns that emerged from the survey centered around mental health and drug and alcohol usage.  Over 50% of the 5th grade students surveyed stated they had experienced being hit, pushed, the victims of rumors, or been called bad names, and 30% stated they had experienced sadness.  Ten percent of 5th graders used drugs or alcohol. At the middle and high school, the numbers were similar with 40% experiencing a form of harassment,  15% using drugs or alcohol and over 30% experiencing chronic sadness of considering suicide.     The District has taken numerous measures to create a safe, secure, and healthy learning environment including: Stationing a School Resource Officer at San Pasqual Valley Middle School who serves the District as a whole Employing two campus security officers Employing 3 Outreach Consultants, 1 Community Liaison, 1 CHAT Therapist, 1 Student Behavior Alternative Discipline Specialist, and 3 Counselors.   Focus on student mental health and bullying continue to be a need for SPVUSD.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
21654580000000|San Rafael City Elementary|6|Due to the every other year cycle of the California Healthy Kids Survey administration, San Rafael City Elementary District used Youth Truth Student Survey “Overall School Experience” as an additional data collection tool to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Youth Truth Student Survey “Overall School Experience” was administered to 3 elementary sites and represents feedback from 705 students in grades 3rd, 4th and 5th in San Rafael City Elementary District. The survey results are comprised of 5 key measures to rate students’ perceptions of their school: engagement, academic rigor, instructional methods, relationships, and culture. Ratings are on a 1-3 scale: 1(no, hardly ever), 2(sometimes), 3(yes, very often). All reported results are based on a 3(yes, very often). Overall, students feel a high level of engagement which connects students to their school community with 92% of students report that their teachers want them to work their hardest very often, 96% of students report that their teacher wants them to do their best very often, and 81% of the students feel their teacher encourages them to keep trying when the work gets hard very often. Based on this data students feel connected and valued as learners in their classroom environments. Based on the relationship data, students do feel that they have caring adult relationships with 85% of students report that they like the way their teacher treats them when they need help very often, 89% of students report that their teacher treats them with respect very often, 80% of students report that their teacher is fair to them very often, and 84% of student report that they think their teacher cares about them very often. As for academic rigor, 82% of students report that they learn a lot in class very often; however, 57% of students report that the work they do in class makes them really think very often. Teachers in elementary continue to have opportunities to improve their practice in math discourse and writing workshop strategies with ongoing district-wide professional development. All elementary sites have site based instructional coaches that support teacher implementation of these strategies. Based on instructional methods results, students do feel they have a voice in their classrooms with 71% of students report that their teacher lets them explain their ideas very often and 70% of students report that their teacher explains things in ways they can understand very often. Based on culture data 79% of students report that adults at school respect people from different backgrounds, yet 37% of students report that students in class treat the teacher with respect. Elementary sites continue to implement social emotional strategies and programs such as Teaching Pyramid, Soul Shoppe, Mindfulness, and Tool Box. The 2019-2020 District goals include building a culture of excellence that is supportive and positive through trusting relationships.|2019-11-04||Met|2019
21654660000000|San Rafael City High|6|Due to the every other year cycle of the California Healthy Kids Survey administration, San Rafael City High District used San Rafael Equity Audit Student Survey as an additional data collection tool to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. San Rafael Equity Audit Student Survey was administered to all high schools and represents feedback from 1,515 students (grades 9, 10, 11, and 12) that reported neither agree or disagree, agree, or strongly agree. This survey reported that 86% of students feel their school encourages them to push themselves academically by taking challenging classes, 79% of students feel their school does a good job teaching them how to apply to college, and 68% of students feel their school helps them identify passions, and develop a plan to pursue them. Included in this survey was a question asking each student to give his/her school a grade, and then additionally providing an individual student response as to why he/she gave the school that particular grade. Over half of the student respondents rated their school as a level A or B with a total of 65%. The response trends indicating the why behind the grade include: students reported mixed perspectives about their teachers supporting their learning and providing a safe, caring environment; students reported mixed perspectives about receiving the support needed to pursue their passions in high school to then help choose a path outside of high school; and students reported not receiving enough opportunities for individualized support from counselors. Many students reported having the support needed to be successful and having access to programs. Students reported that their school should implement more programs that provide opportunities for students to explore their passions. Some students reported that their school prioritizes college rather than career and passions. Students also reported that counselors need to be more accessible for students, however, students reported that the College and Career Center is helpful. SRCS District goals for 2019-20 reflect the importance of building a culture of excellence that is supportive and positive through trusting relationships. For student success SRCS will ensure that every student graduates with a profound love for learning and has the necessary skills to meet the challenges of an every-changing world and has a learning environment that nurtures and engages the whole student.|2019-11-04||Met|2019
07618040000000|San Ramon Valley Unified|6|SRVUSD administered the Healthy Kids Survey in October 2018. Based on student responses reported in the results, the key finding of SRVUSD students’ perception of school safety and connectedness are as follows:  On average, 78% of our students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school. 89% of 5th grade students feel safe at school all or most of the time. 80% of 7th, 70% of 9th and 72% of 11th grade students agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school.  About 71% of our students reported that they feel connected at school.  Of secondary school students, 7th graders reported the greatest percentage of high level school connectedness at 74%, followed by 66% of 9th graders and 62% of 11th graders.  Results of school connectedness by ethnicity shows similar trends of decline . Ethnic groups with the highest reported connectedness are White, American Indian/Alaskan Native, and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander. African American reported the lowest levels of school connectedness at each grade level.  Of secondary schools, reported school connected by gender peaks at 7th grade for boys and girls. Girls reported higher connectedness in 5th and 7th and 9th  grades however boys reported higher school connected in 11th grades. The greatest decline occurred in girls between 7th and 9th grades.  For additional information, please refer to the 2018-19 LCAP which can be found on the SRVUSD website. www.srvusd.net|2019-10-29||Met|2019
37683790000000|San Ysidro Elementary|6|Based on the Key Indicators of the California Healthy Kids Report the following areas were identified as areas of need: • Caring Adult Relations under School Engagement and Supports was an area to address as 29% of students reported they feel moderate school support, moderate caring adults and moderate meaningful participation.  • Under Safety and Substance Use- 30% of our students reported harassment or bullying and 36% had, mean rumors or lies spread about them. • Mental and Physical Health- 27% of students experienced chronic sadness and hopelessness These results provide important information about how students feel and what changes need to take place in our schools to improve students’ wellbeing. The following programs and interventions have been adopted and implemented to address the previously discussed needs • PBIS  (Positive Behavior Intervention System) Training  for all Site Administration Teachers  • MTSS Grant • Second Step Curriculum • The district created San Ysidro School District Positive Discipline Plan • Community Partnerships for training and interventions o South Bay Community o San Ysidro Health Center  • !MPACT   People Training -Pathways|2019-10-31||Met|2019
10624146117873|Sanger Academy Charter|6|A district total of 492 5th grade elementary students and 468 6th grade elementary students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 51%. Key Indicators of School Climate and Student Well-Being were in four areas including School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Disciplinary Environment. In the area of School Engagement and Supports students rated the sub-areas school connectedness, caring adult relationships and academic motivation the highest with a range of 79-90% describing the percentage of students who perceived that teachers cared for them, recognized their performance and created an environment conducive to feelings of connectedness to the adults at school. In the area of School Safety a full 82% of students feel safe at school “most or all of the time”. An average of 9% of 5th and 6th grade students reported mean rumors being spread about them or report having been called bad names. This is a focus area for the district. The Disciplinary Environment is viewed positively with 88% of students reporting being treated with respect. A district total of 1,580 6th, 7th, and 8th, grade students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 83%. Key Indicators analyzed for the purpose of this report are School Engagement and Supports, School Safety and Substance Use, and Mental and Physical Health. In the area of School Engagement and Supports students believe that teachers have high expectations and 76-87% of students reported they are academically motivated to do well in school. 16% of students reported being harassed for some reason at school, this is a focus area for the district. Less than 4% of all students report being drunk or “high” on drugs at school. Mental and Physical health is an area of concern with an average of 28% of students reporting chronic sadness/hopelessness in the past 12 months. A district total of 2,097 7th, 9th, and 11th, grade students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 83%. Key Indicators analyzed for the purpose of this report are School Engagement and Supports, School Safety and Substance Use, and Mental and Physical Health. In the area of School Engagement and Supports 51-71% of students felt connected to school, that teachers have high expectations and care about them. In the area of School Safety and Substance Use, 55-62% students perceive school as very safe or safe. 28-34% of students report harassment of some type. This is a focus area for the district. 3-10% of students reported binge drinking during the past 30 days while only 1-3% report current cigarette use. Mental and Physical Health was under scrutiny in the areas of chronic sadness/hopelessness and suicidal ideation. Students reported experiencing chronic sadness at a rate of 31-39% while 16-19% of student reported having considered suicide. Both are areas of focus, additional funding, and training.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
10624140000000|Sanger Unified|6|A district total of 492 5th grade elementary students and 468 6th grade elementary students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 51%. Key Indicators of School Climate and Student Well-Being were in four areas including School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Disciplinary Environment. In the area of School Engagement and Supports students rated the sub-areas school connectedness, caring adult relationships and academic motivation the highest with a range of 79-90% describing the percentage of students who perceived that teachers cared for them, recognized their performance and created an environment conducive to feelings of connectedness to the adults at school. In the area of School Safety a full 82% of students feel safe at school “most or all of the time”. An average of 9% of 5th and 6th grade students reported mean rumors being spread about them or report having been called bad names. This is a focus area for the district. The Disciplinary Environment is viewed positively with 88% of students reporting being treated with respect. A district total of 1,580 6th, 7th, and 8th, grade students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 83%. Key Indicators analyzed for the purpose of this report are School Engagement and Supports, School Safety and Substance Use, and Mental and Physical Health. In the area of School Engagement and Supports students believe that teachers have high expectations and 76-87% of students reported they are academically motivated to do well in school. 16% of students reported being harassed for some reason at school, this is a focus area for the district. Less than 4% of all students report being drunk or “high” on drugs at school. Mental and Physical health is an area of concern with an average of 28% of students reporting chronic sadness/hopelessness in the past 12 months. A district total of 2,097 7th, 9th, and 11th, grade students completed the CHKS for an average response rate of 83%. Key Indicators analyzed for the purpose of this report are School Engagement and Supports, School Safety and Substance Use, and Mental and Physical Health. In the area of School Engagement and Supports 51-71% of students felt connected to school, that teachers have high expectations and care about them. In the area of School Safety and Substance Use, 55-62% students perceive school as very safe or safe. 28-34% of students report harassment of some type. This is a focus area for the district. 3-10% of students reported binge drinking during the past 30 days while only 1-3% report current cigarette use. Mental and Physical Health was under scrutiny in the areas of chronic sadness/hopelessness and suicidal ideation. Students reported experiencing chronic sadness at a rate of 31-39% while 16-19% of student reported having considered suicide. Both are areas of focus, additional funding, and training.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
30666700000000|Santa Ana Unified|6|All key grades surveyed in the California Healthy Kids Survey increased by one percentage point for the question, “I feel safe at my school.” Since this increase was minimal, we are committed to continue enhancing our school climate interventions and supports to garner an even greater impact. There is a concern that connectedness had a 2% reduction over the last 2 years. This correlates with recent research on Gen Z students and their sense of disconnection and heightened isolation.  Expulsions in the district have remained at historical lows for the past 3 years. However, a trend has been identified in an increase of drug related offenses. Out of the 26 expulsions in 2018-19 school year, 14 were for drug related offenses. Similarly, suspensions have remained at a historical low over the last 4 years, however there has been an uptick in drug related offenses. In order to sustain positive momentum, we have recommitted to past practices that have proven effective such as restorative practice interventions and bullying intervention and prevention. The number of RP partners has increased, more trainings have been established for the 19-20 school year and the Engage 360 program has also developed their own component unique to the program. In addition, we have rolled out a district based mental health team consisting of 3 senior school social workers and 8 school social workers. School administrators have received a “regional support plan” which delineates an assigned staff member from School Climate, Restorative Practices, Attendance, and Mental Health to directly assist each site. By providing school based services throughout the district, families are more likely to engage and benefit since barriers such as transportation, language and cost are eliminated. Wellness Centers have been established at all school sites which have proven to be a strong support to families. Through collaboration between departments, parent and family education sessions regarding restorative practices (RP), Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS), mental health, and health education and services have been provided at various Wellness Centers. In addition, support groups for families impacted by the justice system have also been provided. School administrators have received a “regional support plan” which delineates an assigned staff member from School Climate, RP, Attendance, and Mental Health to directly assist each site. Effective and continuous improvement is the result of consistent implementation of a wide array of PBIS and restorative practices. Historically, the results have indicated strong outcomes that reinforce our commitment to both PBIS, restorative practice, mental health intervention and parent connection.  We believe these results were achieved since school administrators and their staff were responsive to the trainings provided, and open to alternative approaches in lieu of punitive practices they have utilized in the past.|2019-10-22|The district’s commitment to PBIS and other school climate components has been evident and ongoing for 8 years.  This has been demonstrated by the numerous awards received at the state level in regards to PBIS implementation: 25 Platinum sites, 17 Gold sites, 10 Silver sites. The effective integration of PBIS in discipline practices has ensured that the decline in suspensions and expulsions has relatively sustained over that past 5 years. To ensure students in need of tier 3 services are supported, the district has invested in a school based mental health team.  Within the first 6 months of implementation, over 12,000 counseling sessions took place with only 50% of the team on boarded. In addition, the district has tragically lost 2-4 students to suicide over the past few years, parallel to the data reflecting increased suicides across the nation. After district-wide efforts, supporting the We Care Get Help suicide prevention campaign the district was thrilled to discover that we completed the 18-19 school year with 0 deaths by suicide. The school-based mental health social workers have been instrumental in responding to ideations and concerns from students, staff and families and have developed partnerships with local hospitals to ensure effective mental health re-entry plans post hospitalization.|Met|2019
42767866111603|Santa Barbara Charter|6|In October of 2019 our fifth and sixth grade students were given a local climate survey to capture student perceptions of school safety and community/connectedness. The results were analyzed by the Director of Education and teaching staff.    DATA: Areas of strength:  85% of our 5th and 6th graders are happy to be at Santa Barbara Charter School, most or all of the time. 85% of students feel like they are a part of Santa Barbara Charter School, most or all of the time. 79% of students feel teachers treat students fairly most or all of the time, and 100% of students feel teachers treat students fairly some, most, or all of the time. 82% of students feel that teachers and other grownups care about them, most or all of the time. 85% of students say that teachers and other grownups believe they can do a good job, most or all of the time, with 52% answering that they believe this all of the time. 92% of students say that teachers and other grown-ups want students to do their best, most or all of the time, with 70% answering that teachers want this all of the time.  Areas of challenge: From both last year’s and this year’s results, students in 5th and 6th grades indicate they might like to have more say in deciding class activities, telling teachers what they’d like to learn about, and helping to make rules.  From the 17-18 Local Indicators, we saw that 20% percent of students feel they don’t get a chance to decide class activities, and in the 18-19 results we see that 27% of the students feel this same way. Both this year and last year, 37% of the students say they only get a chance to help decide class activities some of the time.   This year, 30% of students say they never are asked what they want to learn, and we had similar results last year (32%).   MEANING: Students, for the most part, feel good about attending SBCS.  They indicate that they are happy and included in the school community.  There are strong and significant relationships with teachers and other grownups at SBCS, as students feel seen, heard, and known.  Students see that teachers set high expectations for students and also support them in doing their best. Regarding the areas of challenge, we notice that students responded similarly in two consecutive years; therefore, we are planning to increase the students’ sense of decision-making and control over classroom learning projects.  USE: With two years of similar answers to the “area of challenge” questions, Teachers Council is thinking further about how to incorporate student choice and decision-making into the curriculum planning. During the 2019-20 school year, teachers will engage in training related to Project Based Learning (PBL).  Teachers will discuss not only the ideas of integrated studies, but also how to set up learning opportunities where children drive the program and next steps through their own inquiry.|2019-10-17|Teachers continue to offer opportunities across the curriculum, such as individual and group projects, alternative means of acquiring or demonstrating content knowledge, and elective units.  With our training in PBL, we hope to effectively enhance students’ sense of choice and decision-making within a standards-based framework.|Met|2019
42104210000000|Santa Barbara County Office of Education|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was conducted in 2018-19.  Students in grades 8-12 participated in the survey. JCCS parents and students also participate in annual surveys created by JCCS staff and advisory committee members. Survey results are reviewed and analyzed by the JCCS Leadership Team and advisory committee members, and results are summarized in the Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP). Local decisions are made based upon the results of all three surveys.   The CHKS results indicated that the majority of students reported feeling optimistic about school, with 66% reporting they feel they safe at school; 70% reporting there is a teacher or other adult who wants them to do their best; and 75% reporting that an adult has high expectations for them. Our data confirms that our staff is building relationships that have a meaningful impact on our students and their choices. The majority of our students are coming to us with adverse childhood trauma and the fact that the results of the survey show they have an adult who they can trust at school is a huge achievement. Having one caring adult has proven to be the key indicator of a child’s ability to overcome childhood trauma and build resiliency.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
42767860000000|Santa Barbara Unified|6|SBUnified greatly values a positive school climate, as a safe, personable and engaging environment helps foster student success. We continue to identify and refine practices that support support a positive school climate, as results from WestEd’s California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) highlight the connection between learning environment and academic success.  In elementary and secondary, both students’ sense of safety and connectedness have returned to baseline rates from 2015-16. Student responses continue to indicate that a greater percentage of 5th and 6th grade elementary students feel safe and highly connected to school than do secondary students, amongst which gaps between student groups in perceptions of safety and connectedness still mirror gaps in achievement. Specifically, 79% of 5th and 6th grade students feel safe at school, compared to 59% of all secondary students, and 64% of elementary students feel a high sense of connectedness to school, compared to 52% of secondary students. While student group data is not available for elementary school students, in secondary, lower proportions of Black/African American, Latinx, socioeconomically disadvantaged, foster youth, and homeless students feel safe at school, and lower proportions have a high sense of connectedness to school. Results indicate that students experience barriers to belonging in secondary, which are more pronounced amongst student groups with lower proportions of students mastering academic state standards.  School climate is a crucial aspect of school life and community, as it impacts belonging, which is highly related to engagement and achievement. The continued development of safe and connected school communities is essential in supporting students’ social-emotional wellness and equity in academic success for all student groups. Accordingly, efforts to improve school climate are designed to impact student engagement, learning, and achievement, and were substantially modified for 2018-2019 recognizing a need for a more comprehensive and holistic approach; it is likely that the perception survey may not yet be sensitive to the effects given the first year of implementation. As outlined in the LCAP, SBUnified aims to increase student engagement and promote mental health and wellness of all students through a school-based multi-tiered system of supports (MTSS) that includes social-emotional learning (SEL), restorative approaches (RA), and positive behavior intervention systems (PBIS). These efforts include the creation of a continuum of school-based mental health services, engagement of students who are chronically absent, and parent engagement strategies. Improved efforts are detailed under LCAP Goal 2 “Engage students and families to promote student success” and address the state priorities around increasing equity in educational outcomes.  Additional information can be viewed at the February 26, 2019 board meeting at http://www.sbunified.org/board/board-meetings/|2019-02-26|The survey is administered annually in November and December. The target response rate was well exceed as in previous years, reaching 84% in school year 2018-2019. Results continue to highlight the connection between learning environment and academic achievement, as well as a uniquely difficult year in 2017-2018 when the survey was administered while the local community was experiencing compounded trauma in relation to devastating natural disasters, the compounding effects of which likely showed up in the 2018-2019 perception data; it will be important to monitor various sources of information in relation to school climate in upcoming years.|Met|2019
43104390000000|Santa Clara County Office of Education|6|The Student Services and Support Division annually surveys students, parents, staff, and community members to ensure they are involved in the annual LCAP, SPSA, SARC, School Climate, ELAC, and other related components of our school communities and Department. This year the LCAP survey achieved a combined (AED and SPED) response rate of 16% in 2018-19. In 2017-18, the California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in collaboration with ongoing academic assessments to ascertain the current levels of student need. In combination with the Healthy Kids Survey, the Department analyzes student attendance rate, chronic absenteeism, graduation rate, and dropout rates as aligned with the CA Accountability Dashboard.   Findings 194/313 Students in grades 7-12 participated in The 2017-18 CA Healthy Kids Survey with a 62% response rate.   Safety 40% of Students Felt Very Safe 27% of Students Felt Safe 24% of Students Responded Neutrally Regarding Safety  School Connectedness 78% of students indicated a high or medium level of connectedness to school. 57% of students indicated a high or medium level of academic motivation. 58% of students indicated a high or medium perception level of parent involvement.  The Student Services and Support Division further analyzed student academic data, student-family-staff surveys, progress toward graduation requirements, and graduation rates in order to prioritize actions. Based on students’ current level of social and emotional behaviors, the department increased direct behavioral and mental health support. Students and parents report minimal exposure or understanding of local resources that include parks, community-based organizations, museums, universities, colleges, and community colleges. In addition, the school staff identified a greater need for pro-social activities, groups, mentors, and field trips.  CA Dashboard analysis indicated a need to support college and career readiness for Alternative Education as a focus for 2019-20, and Special Education chose to focus for 2019-20 on climate and culture to address the whole student.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
56725790000000|Santa Clara Elementary|6|Santa Clara Elementary has administered different surveys in past years to students in grades 4th-6th. The district requires parent permission when administering student surveys, and all are anonymous. The surveys are used to gauge how the district is progressing in meeting LCAP goals related to school climate and safety and student engagement. Results have shown that 85% of students indicate a positive attitude toward school and feel safe while on campus. The district administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in the 2017-18 school year to students in the 5th grade. There were only 5 students that participated. Responses are confidential when reporting for fewer that 30 students. Teachers and the principal reviewed the responses and decided it would be beneficial to administer the CHKS to all students in grades 4th-6th in the 2019-20 school year. Stakeholders feel this will give more reliable information needed to monitor the district's progress in implementing the LCAP goals.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
43696740000000|Santa Clara Unified|6|2019 was the first year that our district administered a county-developed social-emotional learning survey to all 3rd-12th grade students. Results of the survey showed a high level of consistency in responses across grade levels. 80% of students responded positively to questions pertaining to Academic Behaviors, Academic Mindset, and Academic Perseverance that are correlated with academic success, including college and career readiness. 76% of students responded positively to questions regarding their own social skills, 73% of students responded positively to questions pertaining to their knowledge and use of learning strategies, and 67% of students responded positively to questions which pertain to classroom context/School Culture such as: "I feel like students at my school respect me:" "Adults at my school treat students with respect;" "I feel safe at school;" etc. With the lowest positive scores in the area of Classroom Context/School Culture, the district and school sites are in the process of digging deeper into that set of questions to pinpoint student groups and grade levels in order to consider actions that will improve conditions for students who did not respond positively in that area. Because the survey was tied to student ID, we were able to see if responses to the SEL survey correlated to other measures--especially GPA at the secondary level. We did find a high correlation between students' with high positive overall SEL survey scores and students with GPA's of 3.5 and above.  This cross-domain analysis also helped us see both high-achieving and academically struggling students who may be at-risk emotionally based on "low" overall SEL scores.  Both school counselors and Wellness Coordinator at every school site are using this data to help ensure that every student gets the support they need.|2019-06-27||Met|2019
19651360117234|Santa Clarita Valley International|6|School climate represents an important lever for improving school safety, the quality of teaching and learning, and the strength of relationships. Santa Clarita Valley, Int’l (SCVi) administers the Gallup Student Poll annually to learners in grades 5-12. The Gallup Student Poll is a 24-question survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of students in grades five through 12. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success. SCVi met or exceeded U.S. Overall Scores in three of the four assessment categories.  Engagement Grandmean -SCVi 3.89 -U.S. Overall 3.85  Hope Grandmean -SCVi 3.96 -U.S. Overall 4.20  Entrepreneurial Aspiration Grandmean -SCVi 2.67 -U.S. Overall 2.42  Career/Financial Literacy Grandmean -SCVi 3.28 -U.S. Overall 3.28  Detailed results for the 2018-2019 Gallup Survey The first category assessed in the Gallup Poll is Engagement: The Involvement in and enthusiasm for school.  Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I feel safe in this school. -I have a best friend at school. -I have fun at school. -In the last 7 days, someone has told me I have done good work at school. -The adults at my school care about me. -I have at least one teacher who makes me excited about the future.   Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -At this school, I get to do what is best every day. -My teachers make me feel my schoolwork is important. -In the last 7 days, I have learned something interesting at school.  The Gallup Poll also measures Hope: The Ideas and energy students have for the future.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a mentor who encourages my development. -I know I will find a good job in the future.  Areas of growth as compared to U.S. Overall include: -I have many goals. -I can find many ways around problems. -I can think of many ways to get good grades. -I know I will graduate from high school. -I have a great future ahead of me.  Entrepreneurial Aspiration measures how learners rate themselves on: The talent and energy for building business that survive, thrive, and employ others.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I will invent something that changes the world. -I plan to start my own business. -I am learning how to start and run a business. -I have my own business now.  Areas of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: None identified  The last category in the Gallup Poll is Career/Financial Literacy: The information, attitudes and behaviors that students need to practice for healthy participation in the economy.   Areas of strength as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I have a paying job now. -I have a bank account with money in it.  Area of growth as compared to the U.S. Overall include: -I am learning how to save and spend money. -I am involved in at least one activity, such as a club, music, sports or volunteering.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
44698150000000|Santa Cruz City Elementary|6|Each year the Social Emotional Health Survey designed by University of California, Santa Barbara is administered to 4th-10th graders. The data received from this survey helps schools meet individual student social emotional needs as well as get a pulse on the strengths and weaknesses of their school climate and culture.   In addition, every other year students in 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade take the California Healthy Kids Survey, which provides data regarding student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) school climate survey was last administered during the 2018-19 school year. The district retained the data from the 2016-17 school year for comparison purposes.   The specific questions from the CHKS survey that were analyzed for comparison were: “I feel close to people at the school.” “There is a teacher or other adult who really cares about me.” “I feel safe at school.”  In general, our data has increased on these 3 questions when looking at the 2016 data compared to the 2018 data. The majority of students feel safe, cared for, and connected to school. However, that said, there is definitely still room for improvement because we do not have 6% to 30% not feeling safe, cared for, and/or connected to school depending on the grade level and question that is looked at.  Thus, school administrators and faculties are continuously working to increase students’ sense of connectedness and safety at school. At the elementary and middle school level there is a focus on implementing Trauma Informed Services as well as Positive Behavior Interventions and Support. There are club fairs at the middle and high school aimed at getting students involved and connected with students and adults. The high schools are also engaging in gaining “student voice” through student publications, feedback forums, interviews, and surveys. The elementaries have Recess Coaches that help engage and connect students with their peers in positive play.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
44698230000000|Santa Cruz City High|6|Each year the Social Emotional Health Survey designed by University of California, Santa Barbara is administered to 4th-10th graders. The data received from this survey helps schools meet individual student social emotional needs as well as get a pulse on the strengths and weaknesses of their school climate and culture.   In addition, every other year students in 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th grade take the California Healthy Kids Survey, which provides data regarding student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) school climate survey was last administered during the 2018-19 school year. The district retained the data from the 2016-17 school year for comparison purposes.   The specific questions from the CHKS survey that were analyzed for comparison were: “I feel close to people at the school.” “There is a teacher or other adult who really cares about me.” “I feel safe at school.”  In general, our data has increased on these 3 questions when looking at the 2016 data compared to the 2018 data. The majority of students feel safe, cared for, and connected to school. However, that said, there is definitely still room for improvement because we do not have 6% to 30% not feeling safe, cared for, and/or connected to school depending on the grade level and question that is looked at.  Thus, school administrators and faculties are continuously working to increase students’ sense of connectedness and safety at school. At the elementary and middle school level there is a focus on implementing Trauma Informed Services as well as Positive Behavior Interventions and Support. There are club fairs at the middle and high school aimed at getting students involved and connected with students and adults. The high schools are also engaging in gaining “student voice” through student publications, feedback forums, interviews, and surveys. The elementaries have Recess Coaches that help engage and connect students with their peers in positive play.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
44104470136572|Santa Cruz County Career Advancement Charter|6|All CAC students receive individualized, goal oriented, work based and relationship focused guidance. School is designed to be positive and welcoming place for any adult learner who wishes to complete their high school diploma, regardless of race, ability, language or economic circumstances.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
44104470100305|Santa Cruz County Cypress Charter High|6|Cypress administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year for 9th and 11th grade students. This survey measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The most recent survey was administered in the Spring of the 2018-19 school year.  Most recently this survey was administered during the 2018-2019 school year. The majority of students surveyed reported high levels of school engagement and support.  68% of 9th grade students and 75% of 11th grade students were reported to have a high to moderate level of school connectedness based on the applied CHKS formula.  75% of 9th graders and 64% of 11th graders reported feeling academically motivated. 70% of 9th graders and 87% of 11th graders reporting caring relationships with at least one adult at school.  78% of 9th graders and 96% of 11th graders agreed or strongly agreed that adults at school hold high academic expectations.  While students reported strong feelings of school safety, the number reporting feeling bullied or harassed is cause for concern. 92% of surveyed students agree that they feel safe at school.  71% of 9th graders and 23% of 11th graders reported experiencing harassment or bullying in the last year. 52% of 9th graders and 42% of 11th graders reported having had mean lies or rumors spread about them.  Of greatest concern is the number of students who report chronic sadness/hopelessness and the number who have considered suicide. 64% of 9th graders and 54% of 11th graders have experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness. 32% of 9th graders and 35% of 11th graders have considered suicide.   Planned and in-progress actions include:  1. Anti-bullying curriculum in 9th grade classes 2. Continued focus on Restorative Justice Practices including Circles of Support and Accountability (COSA) for students who are struggling academically, emotionally or to address concerning behavior. 3.Continued utilization of community resources to support students’ mental health and wellness  and to provide education regarding drugs and alcohol use, sexual health, suicide prevention, etc.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
44104470000000|Santa Cruz County Office of Education|6|The Santa Cruz County Office of Education, Alternative Education Program administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year. This survey measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Most recently this survey was administered during the 2018-2019 school year.   97% of students were reported to have a high to moderate level of school connectedness based on the applied CHKS formula. Additionally,  83% of students agree that they feel safe at school, with 15% responding neutrally.   It should be noted, however, that 12% of students reported having been bullied or harassed during the year and 14% reported having been high or drunk at school at some point over the past 30 days.    84% of students agree that they experience strong caring relationships with adults at school. 87% of students reported feeling like their voice was heard at school, and that adult expectations were high.   Planned and in-progress actions include:  1. Continue sustaining our strong counseling cohort through monthly meetings. 2. Contracting with Children's Behavioral Health for acute-case therapy.  3. Implementation of Restorative Practices across all school sites. 4. Partnering with local organizations to provide engaging learning opportunities in our community.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
42693100000000|Santa Maria Joint Union High|6|The Santa Maria Joint Union High School District administered a climate survey across all grade levels for school safety and connectedness.  In the area of school safety, there was a favorable response of 54% of our student population.  The comparison to the national average with other high schools ranked our District in the 70% percentile for school safety.  There was a 29% that responded favorably when students were asked, "How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?"  The data showed that Hispanic students, Fluent English Proficient (FEP) students, and Limited English Proficient (LEP) students favorably.  When students were asked "If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult?" there was a favorable response of 53% and 33% of students responding sometimes.  67% of students responded favorably when asked "How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?"  with EO, FEP, and LEP students responding favorably with females responding less favorable when compared to males.  59% of students responded favorably when asked "How often do you worry about violence at your school?" with EO, FEP, and Hispanic students responding favorable and 50% of SPED students responded not in favor.  60% of students responded favorably when asked "At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat students?" with 27% somewhat unfairly.  55% of students responded favorably (almost never and once in a while) when asked "How often do students get into physical fights at your school?" with Hispanic students favorable and 50% of SPED students, not favorable. The safety survey had many favorable responses, and although our lowest response was in the area of disrespect will be an area of improvement.  The survey will be administered again in the fall and spring. The District administered the connectedness survey with a 33% favorable response.  When compared to similar high schools nationally the District ranked in the 20th percentile.   21% of students responded favorably when asked "How connected do you feel to the adults at your school?" with 11th and 12th graders showing a high favorability compared to 9th and 10th graders responding lower.  30% of students responded favorably when asked "How well do people at your school understand you as a person?" with males showing a higher favorability compared to females.  33% of students responded favorably when asked "How much do you matter to others at this school?" both males and females responding equally in favor.  43% of students responded favorably when asked "How much respect do students in your school show you?" with 38% showing some respect.  38% of students responded favorably when asked "Overall, how much do you feel like you belong at your school?" with 36% of students responding somewhat.  The survey will be administered in the fall and spring with a focus on improving services on connectedness through staff awareness and intervention.|2019-10-08|The District administered its school safety and school connectedness survey through an outside agency that is researched-based for the first time in the spring of 2019.  The District will be administering the survey again in the fall and spring of this academic year (2019/2020).  The fall data will be shared with teachers, students, and parents to address the needs of students to reflect any improvements in the spring administration.|Met|2019
42691200000000|Santa Maria-Bonita|6|The Santa Maria-Bonita School District’s (SMBSD) commitment to a school climate conducive to learning is reflected in our LCAP Goal 3, “Maintain a safe, secure, healthy and positive learning environment for all students and staff.” To measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness, SMBSD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to 5th and 7th grade students in November 2018. The average response rate of 77% of 5th graders and 93% of 7th graders. The major findings from the 2018-19 CHKS are as follows: 5th and 7th grade students report high to moderate levels of school connectedness at 97% and 93% respectively. A majority of students in 5th grade, 95% report feeling safe to very safe at school, an increase of 15% over the data from the prior school year. A majority of 7th graders (91%) perceive school as “very safe, safe or neither safe nor unsafe.” This is an increase of 2% over the prior year. Students in 5th and 7th grade report high to moderate levels of academic motivation at 85% and 83%, respectively. A vast majority of both 5th and 7th grade students report they feel there are caring adults at school 99% and 89% respectively. Major findings from the SMBSD staff survey related to school climate are as follows: 93% of staff agree or strongly agree that students trust school staff, 97% agree or strongly agree that school staff encourage students regularly and 87% agree or strongly agree they feel safe at school. These metrics showed an increase of 9%, 6% and 8% respectively. The SMBSD Parent and Community Member Survey reports similar findings which are as follows: 96% agree or strongly agree staff and teachers want students to succeed, 90% agree or strongly agree that students trust teachers and school staff and 89% agree or strongly agree that students feel safe at school.  SMBSD continues to provide students and their families with a supportive, inclusive, and welcoming school environment. Appropriate and responsive solution efforts to increase student connectedness, school safety, and student achievement continue to be implemented and refined districtwide. They include the coordination of additional staff to maintain clean and safe facilities, the expansion of counseling services to support social and emotional wellbeing of our students and their families, School Resource Officers serviced through law enforcement agencies, increased student supervision, increased health assistant coverage, and the coordination of school, district, and community resources to meet the needs of the whole child. The district’s family engagement and health program specialists support and coordinate varying aspects of community engagement and health services in cooperation with five family outreach advocates and four district community liaisons who connect families to resources. The district is committed to the academic achievement and social and emotional wellbeing of its students through school safety and connectedness.|2019-10-23|SMBSD’s focus on Tier 1 Instruction promotes a more consistent SEL curriculum districtwide. Efforts focused on the Whole Child Approach and Multi-Tier System of Support provide positive school climates, student engagement, and parent involvement. Positive Behavior and Intervention Support professional learning and school safety promote and support a culture of learning where students follow behavioral expectations and execute transitions and procedures efficiently. Academic and enrichment activities have expanded to encourage our students to focus on their successes, increase positive interactions with peers and pursue college and career goals. To support the social emotional needs of our students, schools have hired additional outreach mentors and Marriage and Family Therapists through the Council on Alcoholism & Drug Abuse. Family Service Agency has 4 Family Outreach Advocates that work districtwide. These advocates connect families to resources, whether it is counseling, medical appointments, or getting insurance. The referral process for students to receive additional SES supports has been refined and redesigned. Students who are not successful with Tier 1 Instructional and behavioral strategies are given additional support after meeting with the Student Success Team or Coordination of Services Team. Students are referred, and re-examined after a set amount of time, to determine whether or not they are meeting their goals and if services need to be increased or decreased.|Met|2019
19647336019079|Santa Monica Boulevard Community Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered to 5th grade every other year and the school administers a local climate survey each year. Last year's survey results conveyed a strong sense of general organization, curriculum and instruction, assessment and school culture among students, staff, and families.  Santa Monica Boulevard Community Charter School (SMBCCS) meaningfully engages stakeholders, including those representing relevant subgroups, in the LCAP and budgeting process throughout the spring via formal meetings, surveys, and data review.   As the school serves a population that is 98% free and reduced price lunch (FRPL), 92% Hispanic/Latino, 2% African American, 60% English L 14% Special Education, all of our efforts are inherently attuned to the needs of student sub-groups and children who are “at-risk.”  Key learnings from surveys conducted reflect that the school's various mediums for teacher, student and parent engagement pair with our comprehensive and well-balanced governance model provide all stakeholders with a sense of belonging within our community and a desire for continued growth and success. Potential areas of growth continue to be the need for educator and family professional development given the many changes happening within the state.   The school’s comprehensive website serves as a great resource, ready and easily accessible to all stakeholders that includes academic progress and specific sub-group performance, the School Accountability Report Card (SARC) and Title III report, detailed information about Common Core, WASC review, and the school’s curriculum, programs and other resources. Information is also available to parents in the school’s Parent Center, which is staffed by a full-time Parent Center Director.  SMBCCS is also WASC accredited and will engage in our self-study visit in March 2020. Information and feedback through WASC have been incorporated into all academic and budgetary plans.  Input received through our surveys and interactions are incorporated into school plans, such as the LCAP, to establish priorities which reflect and meet the needs of the school community.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19649800000000|Santa Monica-Malibu Unified|6|We reviewed student responses on whether students perceived their school to be safe or very safe, all surveyed grade levels showed an increase in comparison to the previous year. Similarly, most grade levels (Grade 7 dropped from 67% to 64%) showed a higher level of school connectedness in comparison to the previous year.   We continue to engage in restorative justice trainings and community circles on our school campuses. Schools that completed level I trainings are currently going through level II trainings to build a stronger sense of community. We are also providing Olweus (anti-bullying) training for our school site Olweus Bullying Prevention Coordinating Committees (OBPCC's). Beginning in the 2019-2020 school year, SMMUSD is participating in the Community Schools Initiative with LACOE and DMH. The initiative enables the public school to be the hub of the neighborhood, uniting families, educators and community partners to provide all students with top-quality academics, enrichment, health and social services and opportunities to succeed in school and in life.  The goals of the initiative are to improve the academic, emotional, and physical well-being of participating students.  The expected student outcomes of the Community Schools Initiative are:  • Show an increase in graduation rates • A decrease in chronic absenteeism and dropout rates • A reduction in suspension • An increase in family engagement|2019-10-17||Met|2019
56768280000000|Santa Paula Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to all students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11 in the spring of 2018.  The district chose two areas of focus:  school connectedness and perception of safety at school.  Students answered a series of questions in these areas using a rating of strongly agree to strongly disagree.   The data indicated 45% of 5th graders, 16% of 7th graders, 12% of 9th graders, 8% of 11th graders at Santa Paula High School, and 20% of 11th graders at Renaissance High School strongly agree that they feel connected to school.  In addition, 78% of 5th graders, 52% of 7th graders, 54% of 9th graders and 44% graders at Santa Paula High School, and 70% of the 11th graders at Renaissance High School strongly agree that they feel safe in school.  An analysis of the data and input provided by student advocacy groups validates the need to retain school counselors and increase mental health services and supports.  The data also supports the district’s LCAP goal to ensure a welcoming, safe and efficient school climate for students, parents, and staff.  Beginning in the 2019-2020 school year the district will retain the two additional mental health counselors to provide and coordinate mental health services and education across the district.  In order to increase the perception of school safety a See Something, Say Something campaign was implemented across all school sites.   In addition, the district researched and adopted Titan HST, a comprehensive emergency alert system and mass notifications application to support school safety.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
27661910000000|Santa Rita Union Elementary|6|Students in grades 5 and 7 completed the California Healthy Kids Survey in Spring 2019. The key indicators regarding School Climate identify that the majority of students feel safe overall at school; for example 72% of students indicated feeling connected to school, 70% feel they have Caring Relationships with Teachers and Staff, 84% feel they are held to High Expectations. Only 43% felt that experience Meaningful Participation and this will be a focus area of growth. 79% of students felt safe at school and 73% perceive violence perpetration to be low and 63% believed the victimization of violence to be low. While low perception of both perpetration and victimization of violence is lower than the state average; this will be a major focus for our school as we continue to build supports for our students and provide additional anti-bullying education at every site.|2019-06-12||Met|2019
33671160109843|Santa Rosa Academy|6|A survey was administered to all students in all grade 5, grade 8, and high school grades.  Responses were collected from students of all tracks: Red (Independent Study Students), White (Partial Site Based), and Blue (Fully Site Based). Students were asked if they agreed with the following statement: Teachers and staff are respectful to students and 81% of elementary students, 91% of middle school students, and 86% of high schoolers agreed or completely agreed. Students were asked if they agreed with the following statement: Students are respectful to each other and 68% of high schoolers agreed or completely agreed. Students were asked if they agreed with the following statement: I feel connected to my teachers and other students and 61% of middle schoolers and 64% of high schoolers agreed or completely agreed. Students were asked if they agreed with the following statement: I feel safe when I am at school 85% of elementary students, 77% of middle schoolers, and 81% of high schoolers agreed or completely agreed. Responses from the climate survey were used to create metrics for LCAP Goal 2: Improve sense of school connectedness. With the actions planned for Goal 2, we hope to increase the level of student excitement, increase participation in school events, and rally students to support the school initiative.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
49402530102533|Santa Rosa Accelerated Charter|6|No new information since 2017-18 as this was the last time the survey was taken. Will be using Youth Truth in the next few months.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
49402530113530|Santa Rosa Charter School for the Arts|6|No new information since 2017-18 as this was the last time the survey was taken. Will be using Youth Truth in the next few months.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
49402530000000|Santa Rosa City Schools|6|No new information since 2017-18 as this was the last time the survey was taken. We will be using Youth Truth in the next few months.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
49402530125831|Santa Rosa French-American Charter (SRFACS)|6||||Not Met|2019
49709120125831|Santa Rosa French-American Charter (SRFACS)|6|SRFACS completed the California Healthy Kids Survey of fifth grade students in 2017-2018. Positive indicators of strengths including gratitude, following rules, and the students’ perception of caring adults in the school. Areas that represent areas for growth include meaningful participation at school and school pride. In response to areas of concern, SRFACS is establishing a Student Council to increase student voice and involvement in school activities. The Teacher Leadership Team sees opportunities to communicate student accomplishments and increase feedback as a tool for increasing school pride and sense of connection. Other actions the LEA will take include maintaining Restorative Practices and a Restorative Specialist and celebrating a Month of Kindness (November). The survey represents a relatively small sample size. LEA hopes to include at least one more grade in the next survey and note subgroup participation. The current data cannot be disaggregated because those students are no attend the LEA. For the 2019-2020 school year SRFACS has a Student Support TOSA who provides refocusing work with students, implements student check-ins and check-outs, provides a quiet lunch space, and provides intervention for Social-Emotional Learning. This support service along with the Restorative Specialist helps students resolve conflicts, teaches students to understand how other students think and feel, and teaches students to feel responsible for how they act. SRFACS celebrates Kindness Month when random acts of kindness are celebrated and school rules are reinforced. The Tool Box system of behavior management is used by many teachers and students. The data shows that overall behavior of students is excellent, but the LEA sees room for improvement by being clearer and more structured with rules and discipline.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
42691796118434|Santa Ynez Valley Charter|6|SYVCS used a survey closely based on the California Healthy Kids Survey. In addition to the questions presented, open-ended questions were provided to gain additional feedback from students.  The survey was given in Spring 2019 to all students in 4th through 8th grade (n=70). Categories are scored from 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree). The scores presented are an average of all scores.  The survey results are presented in summary form below:  I am happy to be at this school 4.0 I feel safe in my school 4.4 The teachers treat students fairly 4.0 The teachers communicate with parents about expectations. 4.3 Parents feel welcome to participate at school 4.3 I try hard to make sure I am good at my schoolwork 4.6 At my school there is a teacher or adult who really cares about me.  4.1 At my school there is a teacher or adult who listens to me when I have something to say. 4.1 At my school there is a teacher or adult who believes I will be a success. 4.3 My school is usually clean and tidy. 3.7 At my school I help decide things like class activities or rules. 2.8  Based upon the survey results, all areas are positively reported (>2.5). Most importantly, students report feeling safe at school (4.4), they have a teacher who really cares about them (4.1) and state that parents feel welcome to participate at school (4.3).  Additional questions:  Can you provide examples of school activities that make you feel more connected to school and your peers? Most frequent responses included school sports, Buddies, Dragon Families, recess/lunch, PE, Genius Hour/Extended Learning, field trips and school performances. A theme that emerges from this is cross-grade level activities, both structured and unstructured are supportive of students’ connectedness to school. If you need help on campus, who is the first adult that you would go to to get help? 65 of 70 responses identified a person/position that they would go to for help.  Summary:  The overall perceptions of school safety and connectedness demonstrate a very positive student view with most average scores above 4. There is room for growth in the areas of a. creating a more clean and tidy environment, and b. involving students in decision making.   The school has initiated staff meetings to respond to areas of need in relation to school safety and climate and continues to maintain a high level of attention to issues. Emphasis has been placed on improving school spirit and enhancing leadership programs for students.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
42693280000000|Santa Ynez Valley Union High|6|In Fall 2018 Santa Ynez Valley Union High School District students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). The results can be summarized as follows:  Harassment/Bullying Physical (pushed, shoved hit): 9th/21% and 11th / 21%.  This is down from 27% and 23% respectively in 2016. Physical (physical fight): 9th/12% and 11th/8%.  This is down from 18% and 12% respectively in 2016. Verbal (mean rumors or lies spread): 9th / 28% and 11th / 44%.  This is down from 41% and 42% respectively in 2016. Primary reason for bullying: race/ethnicity: 9th/11% and 11th/20%.  9th is down from 19% in 2016 and remains the same in the 11th grade.   The school will be administering the survey again mid-November through December 2020.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37683610000000|Santee|6|Santee School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) annually to 5th and 7th grade students. Our District School Climate Report Card for middle school indicates an overall School Climate Index (SCI) score of 229 on a scale of 100 to 500 points. This overall indicator places our District at the 15th state percentile for all schools and 16th percentile among similar schools. This is an increase from 2018 of 7 and 9 percentile points respectively.  Although, Santee is still under the 2015 baseline of 21 and 13 percentile points respectively. Our District rated higher in the School Climate Subscales on CHKS from 2018. For Overall Supports and Engagement, our score in 2019 was 250 on a scale of 100 to 500 points. This was a 12-point increase from 2018. On average, Santee scores increased in all subscales from 2018; High expectations and caring relationships, Opportunities for meaningful participation, Perceived school safety, and School connectedness. For the Overall Low Violence and Substance Use category, our District showed a 19-point increase from 2018 to a score of 250 on the 500-point scale. On average, Santee scored higher in all subscales; Low physical violence perpetration, Low physical/emotional violence victimization, Low harassment and bullying, and Low substance use at school. Within our main middle school CHKS report, School Supports and Academic Motivation by Race/Ethnicity was analyzed for four student groups; Hispanic or Latino, White, Asian, and two or more races. For the category of Total School Supports, the percent of students scoring high ranged from 52% (Hispanic or Latino) to 63% (Asian). For School Connectedness, the White student group scored highest at 68% and Mixed the lowest at 55%. For Parent Involvement in School, the White student group scored highest at 59% and the Hispanic or Latino and Mixed student groups the lowest at 52%. For Academy Motivation, the Asian student group scored highest at 85% and the Hispanic or Latino student group the lowest at 69%. The Asian student group reported the highest percent of students feeling safe or very safe at school at 73%, the Mixed (two or more) Races student group recorded the lowest at 54%. Harassment or bullying due to six bias-related reasons showed the Asian student group reporting the highest incident rate at 54%. The lowest report of harassment is the White student group at 26% reporting and incident. Santee School District engages in a local student survey to collect 4th – 8th grade student responses related to school connectedness and safety. In the spring of 2019,  67.46% of students responded as feel safe or very safe at school. In 2018, this figure was lower at 65.7%.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
30666216085328|Santiago Middle|6|DATA: LCAP Climate Survey, Suspension Dashboard Indicator, Chronic Absenteeism Dashboard Indicator  - The Data gathered, with respect to school climate indicates that over 95% of families are satisfied with the program Santiago offers. In addition, 95% of stakeholders feel as though they will be supported if there are questions or concerns they have. Families feel as though their students are safe and are complimentary of the support Santiago provides.  MEANING: The data is very positive when reflecting upon Santiago's climate. Some areas of growth include inclusivity of more and more parents and families and a way to continually identify new parent concerns and student trends in middle school.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
43696820000000|Saratoga Union Elementary|6|All Saratoga Union School District students in 4th - 8th grade participated in the Local Control Accountability Student Survey over a two week period (March 4 - March 18 ) at school. There were a total of 1,124 students who answered nine rating scale and two open-ended questions regarding their perspectives about school. The data are displayed at an overall district level and then disaggregated by the site.   My school provides a good education for students. 94.7% I look forward to coming to school each day. 64.6% I feel safe while at school. 92.9% My school works with my parents/guardians to help me do my best in school. 81.1% My school is clean, safe, and in good condition (such as the bathrooms and drinking fountains). 40%  Summary of Argonaut Student Survey: Overall, Argonaut students report that Argonaut provides excellent education, including a  safe and positive learning environment. While many students commented that they would like even more differentiation in areas such as math, several reported that they’d like to have even more time for reading, writing, and social studies. Areas of focused improvement include cleaner bathroom facilities, better lunch options, and additional time for recess and PE.  Summary of Foothill Student Survey: Overall Foothill students feel positive about their school. Most report they feel safe, welcome, and inspired to learn. Areas of improvement according to students include less homework, cleanliness of bathroom facilities, and better food options.  Summary of Saratoga Student Survey: Overall SES students feel positive about their school. Most report they feel safe and well-prepared for the next steps in their education. Areas of improvement according to students include parent communication and the cleanliness of facilities.   Summary of Redwood Student Survey: Overall, Redwood students report that Redwood Middle School provides excellent education (94.7%. 33% of Redwood students do not look forward to coming to school each day. 60% of students do not believe that our school is safe, clean, and in good condition. A major area of focused improvement includes cleaner restroom facilities.  81.1% of the students felt the school works with parents/guardians to help them do their best in school.  Information learned from the survey is used to update and revise our district’s Local Control and Accountability Plan.  A Social-Emotional Learning Task Force comprised of teachers, administrators and parents will work together to decide what next steps need to be taken to address the concerns of students, especially in the area of looking forward to coming to school at the middle school.  The bathrooms will be monitored by the administration to determine if there are any issues regarding cleanliness.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
43693856046494|Sartorette Charter|6|PBIS School Climate Survey - Spring 2019: All students in Grades 3-8.  Number of Students1841 Percentage of students in grades 3-8 who responded “Often” or “Always”.  Survey Questions (Responses from 2018 to 2019) & Change - I like the school. (64% to 70%) + 6% - I feel like I do well in school. (73% to 76%) +3% - My school wants me to do well. (89% to 90%) +1% - My school has clear rules for behavior. (89% to 89%) 0% - Teachers treat me with respect. (89% to 89%) 0% - Good behavior is noticed at my school. (63% to 67%) +4% - I get along with other students. (80% to 78%) -2% - I feel safe at school. (81% to 81%) 0% - Students treat each other well. (69% to 64%) -5% - There is an adult who will help me if I need it. (78% to 81%) 3%  Based on the results of the survey, the CSD staff will be using the data to discuss areas of improvement.  The following are actions that staff will be implementing in the 2018-19 school year:  - Review the results of the school climate survey with all staff and identify areas of improvement where the survey results in less than 80% of students responded "often" or "always". - Staff will also share and discussed overall students' results of the survey with students to better understand our students' needs and what actions or support staff and sites can improve or change. - Staff will administer a pre and post-assessment of the changes and monitor the progress of the changes as they relate to students' perceptions of school climate.|2019-10-02|Cambrian School District has been implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS).  A key strategy of the PBIS process is prevention.  The PBIS model is a research-based strategy that is supported by the state of California and the federal Department of Education. The 3-tiered approach reduces problem behavior as a barrier to student achievement. We only have 180 days each year to advance academic progress, so instructional time is very valuable. Research shows that schools following the PBIS model recover thousands of hours of instructional time and, on average, four days of student instruction per year.|Met|2019
54721080000000|Saucelito Elementary|6|Saucelito continues to provide a safe, secure, and welcoming school climate for students, staff and parents resulting in high levels of student, parent, and community engagement as confirmed by two surveys. The first is an annual local survey that emphasizes local concerns developed by empowered parents and staff and is geared toward multiple grade levels. The second is the California Healthy Kids Survey administered in grades 6-8. Saucelito is a safe school where learning processes are not interrupted by outside influences or discipline issues. Saucelito has a fair discipline policy, which is clearly understood and supported by staff, students, and parents; we have had no student suspensions or expulsions in the past 5 years, a clear result of our school climate. Student engagement is a crucial component for student success. Saucelito’s goal is to involve students as active participants in their education by providing them with project-based learning opportunities, test chats with students, and cross-curricular activities. We enjoy wide participation of parents in classrooms as volunteers and regularly hold school activities that need parent participation. Parents are active partners with teachers in their child’s education and parents are actively involved and empowered on the School Site Council and English Learner Advisory Committee.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19649980000000|Saugus Union|6|SUSD administers a student survey twice each year to determine student connectedness to school and to determine important school climate indicators.  Our data for students in grades 3-6 show that overall students are comfortable at school and feel connected to school.  In the responses of “Always” and “Often”, 94% of students felt that their school wants them to do well, 90% felt that their teachers treat them with respect, 88% felt that their school has clear rules for behavior, and 83% felt that there was an adult at school who will help if needed.   Our area for growth is in the area of student to student relationships and behaviors. We show that 65% of students surveyed felt that good behaviors were noticed at the school, 59% felt as if students treat each other well, and 54% felt that students in their class behaved so the teachers could teach. Our data indicates that improving student interactions and behaviors is an area of opportunity.  We recently acquired additional staff (counselors, social works, etc.) to support building student awareness in social emotional learning.  This includes programs such as Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS), Character Counts, and our Proactive Problem Solving Team (PPST).  We have revised our bullying reporting and intervention process as well as implemented a month long anti-bullying awareness campaign.  Through the support of our counseling team, individual school sites implement restorative circles to help students resolve conflicts and begin to build positive relationships.  While our suspension rate continues to be very low due to increased awareness of student behaviors, we must continue to improve the student experience with their individual peers.|2019-06-06||Met|2019
21654740000000|Sausalito Marin City|6|Bayside MLK staff continue to implement PBIS systems based on the Seneca UE Coach Model.  Mindfulness training and practice takes place in all TK-8 classrooms on a weekly basis over two days each week.  Weekly Panther Pride awards are given out to TK-3 or 4-8 students (rotates each week) based on students demonstrating Panther PRIDE.  P - Pride, R - Respect, I - Integrity, D - Determination, E - Excellence.  Monthly PE awards are given out to two students and one classroom each month based on students/classrooms demonstrating PRIDE during PE class.  Bayside MLK administration facilitates Seneca and Panorama Ed School Climate Surveys two and three times per year respectively.  The LEA conducted the School Climate Assessment Inventory (SCAI) with our partner, Seneca, two times during the 2018-2019 school year.  The results showed an average of 3.68 out of 5 regarding students feeling a sense of belonging with an average of 3.64 out of 5 regarding students feeling a sense of safety.  Student’s sense of belonging remained stable at 3.68 from the fall to the spring administration of the survey while sense of safety improved from 3.32 to 3.64 from fall to spring.    We did not disaggregate the data.  The LEA provided all classified staff members with 7 days of professional development pertaining to creating healthy and trauma-informed climates on campus while the teaching staff has continued to participate in professional development regarding the same.  The LEA is continuing to partner with Seneca to provide the school with an Unconditional Education Coach and program.  PBIS-based programming is in place with regular review of data pertaining to school climate strengths and areas for improvement. We also engaged in a 2 day Courageous Conversation training regarding racial equity will all district staff and have monthly follow up conversations responsive to staff and student identified needs to sustain and deepen our courageous conversations.|2019-11-14|We must continue to tighten our School Wide Positive Behavior Intervention System (PBIS) to continue to make gains in the area of student safety. We will add restorative practices and continue to build staff capacity and diversify our staff to increase the student belonging measure. We will disaggregate this data by race and language learner status this school year and administer Panorama's school climate survey to students staff and parents to get a more holistic view in the 2019-2020 school year.|Met|2019
34765050114272|SAVA - Sacramento Academic and Vocational Academy|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive, collaborative culture where Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
34673140137281|SAVA - Sacramento Academic and Vocational Academy - EGUSD|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive culture of trust and respect among staff members, where Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
34674390137406|SAVA - Sacramento Academic and Vocational Academy - SCUSD|6|School climate surveys are administered to both school staff and students on an annual basis. Both surveys indicated a positive school environment overall where students feel safe and supported. Staff indicated a positive, collaborative culture where Capturing Kids Hearts is being implemented school-wide. The results of the school surveys are reported to the School Site Council and the governing board during the spring of each school year to help develop the LCAP goals for the subsequent school year.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
30666960000000|Savanna Elementary|6|Students in the Savanna School District were given the Healthy Kids survey to determine their level of well-being and indicate perceptions of school climate. 98% of our students felt that school was a safe place to be. In addition, 97% of students shared that there were caring adults at their school and that they were listened to. 100% of our students reported that teachers and adults at their school treated them with respect.  96% of our students felt proud to belong to their schools. The Savanna School District will continue to focus our efforts with data from the Healthy Kids survey, along with data received from attendance and discipline records.  Although 69% of students felt they were taught to be responsible for how they act, only 68% of our students felt they were not taught how other students think and feel. To help strengthen this area, we have implemented a district wide SEL program to address these needs, in addition to further professional development in our PBIS program.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
36678760137935|Savant Preparatory Academy of Business|6|DATA: Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned. Overall, the LEA learned that parents are highly satisfied with the educational program offered.  The data collected suggests that over 90% of parents perceived the campus as safe, clean, and academically aligned with state standards.  MEANING: What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers? The results show that over 90% of parents perceive the campus as safe, clean and academically rigorous. Parents expressed a desire to see more extra curricular activities offered and built in opportunities for academic support via summer school, intercession, and after school tutoring. The barriers to providing such programs are space and staffing. Currently, the LEA shares a campus with a local church and must coordinate activities and events in conjunction with the church calendar. Currently, the LEA operates on a small teacher to student ratio which affects budgeting and the ability to provide additional staffing for extra curricular and academic intersession.  USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking? The LEA will make steps to relocate to a larger campus that can accommodate a summer school and implementation of intersession to promote student achievement. The LEA has applied for Prop 39 funding and researched multiple options to aide in the acquisition of a new facility. The LEA has purchased technology that allows students to access intervention programs one-on-one online. With the appropriate technology and program in place, students will not be confined to the school day or availability of the teacher  to get differentiated practice to help reach academic proficiency.  The LEA has retained two|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37764710000000|SBC - High Tech High|6|High Tech High (HTH SBC) administers the YouthTruth student survey to students in grades 3-12 at each school annually to gather school climate data. The YouthTruth survey utilizes research validated questions. To help schools contextualize survey results, YouthTruth provides a national percentile ranking. This percentile ranking is based on how students at schools across the country have responded in comparison to student responses at a particular school site.    Each HTH SBC school strives to construct a nurturing community of learners where all students are known well by their teachers and feel a deep sense of belonging. The YouthTruth survey provides insight into the extent to which this vision is being realized. For example, the YouthTruth survey given during the 2018/19 school year at each High Tech High high school indicated that HTH SBC schools were at the 91st national percentile for the degree to which students believe discipline is fair.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
37771720000000|SBE - Baypoint Preparatory Academy San Diego|6|BPA-SD requested that staff, parents, and students complete an annual survey in April 2019 to capture perceptions regarding BPA-SD’s school climate and overall satisfaction.   Student survey results indicated that 100% of all students in TK-5th grade felt safe at school. All survey participants in TK-2nd grade felt that BPA-SD staff treated students with respect, while 97% of students in 3rd-5th grade felt that staff cared about them.   All survey participants in 6th grade strongly agreed or agreed that staff and students treat each other with respect. Nearly 90% of 6th grade students felt that they could trust BPA-SD staff when they were facing academic and/or personal issues. The same percentage of students felt that their teacher was available to discuss grades, academic successes, and areas of improvement with the students and parents.   The results from the parent survey showed that approximately 85% of those who participated in the survey strongly agreed that their students felt welcomed, cared for, and safe/secure at school. Of those surveyed, 90% agreed that all parents were provided with opportunities to be involved in the education decision-making process for their students. Nearly 90% of survey participants also strongly agreed that they felt comfortable sharing concerns with staff, and that they were able to receive assistance for their students’ academic needs.   Based on the results from the annual survey, BPA-SD has encouraged staff to continue to build strong relationships with each student and their family through regular communication. BPA-SD administration has provided Orientation/Meet the Teacher events to ensure the academic year begins with a positive connection where the school’s mission, expectations, and policies are reviewed. Fall conferences are mandatory for all families to attend, at which time teachers review academic progress, goals for the year, share successes and address questions/concerns that parents might have regarding their student.|2019-10-28|While the 2018-2019 school year was BPA-SD’s first year of operation, the survey results indicated that the school’s dedication to building strong relationships between staff, families, and students was effective. BPA-SD staff met to discuss the findings of the surveys and collaborated on ways to further improve these relationships and perceptions the 2019-2020 school year. Teachers and staff are committed to ensuring that students and their families feel welcomed, safe, and confident in the academic program at BPA-SD.|Met|2019
19772890000000|SBE - Los Angeles College Prep Academy|6|Data: On the 2018-2019 School Climate Survey 92% of the students reported they like the school and are here by choice, while 8% indicated they are here because of their parent's choice.  93% of the students reported they feel as if they are learning and their teachers are supporting them. 4% did not answer that section of the survey, while 3% fell neutral in this category. 91% of the students reported they strongly feel that teachers and administration supports them. 3% did not answer the question and 4% fell neutral and 2% disagreed in this category. 95% reported they felt the instructional environment was safe, 5% did not answer the question. Meaning: The results indicate that the greater portion of the student population enjoy the school, their teachers, learning and feel safe. LACPA have developed a behavioral matrix and school culture of positivity and reform rather than being punitive.  LACPA is still finding ways to engage more parents in events, meetings and decision making processes. There are families that are consistent in their presence but we need to engage more and new parents.|2019-06-25|LACPA is making meaningful efforts to constantly improve programming, events and outside activities to create a fun and real-world experience for students. LACPA has identified grants over the past year to assist in student funding of AP and PSAT exams, college applications, sports and dual enrollment fees as applicable.|Met|2019
42772140000000|SBE - Olive Grove Charter - Buellton|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 99th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Overall School Climate Index for Middle School was 394 and for High School was 475. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42772060000000|SBE - Olive Grove Charter - Lompoc|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 92% State Percentile School Climate Index and 92% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42771980000000|SBE - Olive Grove Charter - Orcutt/Santa Maria|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 99% State Percentile School Climate Index and 99% Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
42772220000000|SBE - Olive Grove Charter - Santa Barbara|6|Olive Grove Charter School administers a local climate survey every year to all students, staff and parents. OGCS uses the California Healthy Kids Survey. OGCS received a 97th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for Middle School and 97th State Percentile School Climate Index and 99th Similar Schools Percentile School Climate Index for High School. Olive Grove Charter School is proud of the high ratings in the School Climate Index responses for overall supports and engagement (including high expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful participation, perceived school safety, and school connectedness) and overall low violence and substance use (including low physical/emotional violence victimization, low harassment and bullying, and low substance use at school). OGCS will continue to administer and analyze responses to ensure that families continue to feel safe and engaged at Olive Grove Charter School.|2019-09-10||Met|2019
19753090129411|SCALE Leadership Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
33671810138610|Scale Leadership Academy - East|6|Standard met as we are implementing this survey in Year two as planned.  Date taken to local governing board: * December 14, 2019|2019-11-15|The actual date taken to local governing board: * December 14, 2019, unable to put the actual date.|Met|2019
30103060134288|Scholarship Prep|6|Our student survey was designed to gauge the academic and social-emotional climate on campus. We asked students in grades 3-8 targeted questions designed to provide feedback on the implementation of school-wide priorities. We found many positive areas when looking at the student results, including students feeling cared about by staff members, teachers having high expectations for all students, parents talking to students about how they are doing in school, and students feeling safe at school. These were strengths across all surveyed grade levels. This indicated to us that we had been successful in establishing a culture of being warm but demanding. A few differences were apparent in the survey results from previous years. First, the number of students who would recommend our school to someone else was consistent in most grade levels. This was a welcome change from scores that declined as students got older in previous years. Inversely, the number of students who stated they had to write every day increased as we went up in age. Second, we found that our students in grades 5-8 were more likely to agree with the statement "I regularly have to write in all subjects" than the students in grades 3-4.  This shows that our writing program has been effective at grade 5 but not quite in the middle grades. We will need to hold all teachers accountable for the writing process this year.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37103710136085|Scholarship Prep - Oceanside|6|Our student survey was designed to gauge the academic and social-emotional climate on campus. We asked students in grades 3-8 targeted questions designed to provide feedback on the implementation of school-wide priorities. We found many positive areas when looking at the student results, including students feeling cared about by staff members, parents talking to students about how they are doing in school, and students feeling safe at school. These were strengths across all surveyed grade levels. This indicated to us that we had been successful in establishing a culture of being warm but demanding. There was a marked difference in some grade levels in the response to the prompt about teachers having high expectations for all students. Two grade levels were particularly low and will be addressed through teacher coaching.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
37683380122788|School for Entrepreneurship and Technology|6|A majority of the students believe the school is headed in the right direction and just under 80% believe their school is a safe place to learn. We also learned that the majority of SET students believe their teachers care strongly about them and, for the most part, are fairly to very satisfied with the progress in the areas of history/social science, science, writing, mathematics, and reading. However, students had opinions all across the board on the question of the school wanting to hear their ideas.  One place of improvement can be insuring that every student feels important and listened to. Another area where students felt we could improve was being able to count on the school for support when they have concerns.  As this is more of an intangible issue, the solution will have to be instituted on a day-by-day basis, by every staff member. This means more frequent communication among the staff.|2019-10-23|This has been an area of dramatic improvement for our school.  We have a culture where students share concerns with the faculty and staff about students engaging in behavior that is harmful.  The staff knows about most things that are occurring on campus because the students feel comfortable sharing feelings and concerns.  The declining suspension rate is a good indicator of the dramatic difference in culture.|Met|2019
19756971996693|School of Arts and Enterprise|6|SAE administered the Arts, Academics, and School Engagement survey in 2018 to all students to measure student perceptions related to important aspects of school climate. Key learnings from the survey include the overall high percentage of students who feel safe and connected at school and the effectiveness of the arts at engaging traditionally marginalized student populations and the strong correlation between arts engagement and student engagement in academics and the overall school community. Eighty percent of students agreed or strongly agreed they feel safe from physical harm while at school (qualitative data combined with other survey responses suggests students who do not feel safe are concerned about the local community rather than other students). Eighty-three percent of students agreed or strongly agreed that their classmates treat them with respect. Seventy-nine percent of students disagreed or strongly disagreed that they have been bullied. Ninety-seven percent of students agreed or strongly agreed that they follow classroom rules. Ninety-two percent of students agreed or strongly agreed that they have a good relationship with at least one teacher. Eighty-three percent of students agreed or strongly agreed that their classmates treat them with respect. Eighty-two percent of students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel like they belong at their school. Eighty-one percent of students agreed or strongly agreed that overall, they like being at their school. As areas of strength, SAW notes the high percentage of students who feel they have a good relationship with at least one teacher and the high percentage of students who feel they follow classroom rules. In considering areas for growth, although the responses on safety and connectedness were positive overall for approximately 80% or more students, the school will continue to implement planned actions and services to promote social emotional growth and learning, and to ensure that all students feel safe and connected at SAE.|2018-09-13||Met|2019
19649070115170|School of Extended Educational Options|6|SEEO is aligned to Pomona Unified School District's in using the results of the California Health Kids Survey (CHKS) as valid, reliable and consistent data. For SEEO, the School Climate Index (SCI) score went down 25 points from 2016 (285) to 2019 (260). However, overall Supports and Engagement showed improvement, specifically in High Expectations and caring relationships, opportunities for meaningful relationships, and school connectedness.  Also, according to the district’s School Climate Report Card (SCRC) based on CHKS, fifth graders reported having a 6% increase in School Connectedness and 7% increase in Perceived School Safety from 2017-18 baseline scores to 2018-19. The District School Climate Index (SCI) on the District’s SCRC showed a positive change over the last five years for the secondary level. The SCI score for middle school grades increased from 240 points in 2015 to 245 points in 2019 while the high school SCI score went up three points from 278 points in 2015 to 281 points in 2019. Although the middle and high school report cards show a decrease in the “Overall Supports and Engagement” subscale which includes the categories of Perceived School Safety and School Connectedness, the overall SCI score accounted for a significant positive change in Overall Low Violence and Substance Use over the years. The district has been rolling out PBIS and introducing teachers to trauma informed practices over the last couple of years which can help focus on improving areas of high expectations and caring relationships as well as school connectedness.|2019-09-27||Met|2019
37103710136192|School of Universal Learning (SOUL)|6|SOUL Charter School recognizes the significance that culture plays in building and sustaining a positive school community. Our foundation is based in creating a conscious and intentional culture. There are multiple ways in which we develop this culture. Our holistic program Integra, is one of the primary ways in which we do so. Students have Integra three times a day. Through Integra, students are developed: mentally, emotionally, socially, physically, and personally. Additionally, tribe circles and restorative circles are a common practice which allow for greater connectedness and problem solving.  SOUL provides a positive environment where students, guides (teachers), and school staff honor the guiding values of mindfulness, freedom, authenticity, and safety. We believe that by rooting these values throughout the entire foundation, we establish a purposeful culture that permeates beyond the school.   SOUL administers an End of Year Survey in which students and parents are asked a series of questions in relation to overall thoughts and feelings about their year at SOUL, including suggestions for improvement. The survey includes questions regarding school culture, climate, connectedness, and safety.   Questions include: • Parents: The culture and community that has been established at SOUL has been both positive and nurturing. • Students: I feel both emotionally and physically safe at school and have positive relationships with my guides and peers.  The metric we used in accordance with our goal for the LCAP is as follows: At least 85% of parents and students will report being “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with the school culture and community on their End of Year Survey. As a result, 84% of parents and students combined rated these statements between a 7-10 (1=strongly disagree, 10=agree wholeheartedly) on the End of Year Survey. Additionally, 82% of students who completed the survey reported that, if they are struggling in any way, there are adults on campus that they can turn to for mentoring or support.  When reviewing the data, along with feedback we are given from students, one of our major areas of strengths include developing a positive school culture. Students feel like they have a family at SOUL. A defining feature of the school is the emphasis we place on school culture. As a small school in our third year of operation, some of the challenges we face include maintaining the conscious and intentional school culture that we've worked so hard to create. As we continue to grow our team, we recognize the importance of having a full time school counselor on staff to further support the mental health and emotional needs of our students.   For continuous improvement, SOUL will work towards further supporting individual students with their specific mental/emotional needs. Additionally, we will continue to provide professional development to our staff which includes: restorative justice, responsive classroom, and positive discipline practices.|2019-10-30|In addition to surveys, our school culture could be assessed by observing student interactions within the classroom/school settings. While this does not yield tangible data, the positive, inclusive community at school is palpable.|Met|2019
10621661030642|School of Unlimited Learning|6|SOUL administers student surveys three times per year, in the fall, winter, and spring. The Fall 2019 student surveys indicated that students feel safe at the school and regard the learning environment as engaging and productive. Bring a small school, students feel that they can approach adults, obtain effective feedback, and also feel that they are making more progress than in their previous school.|2019-05-14||Met|2019
57727100121749|Science & Technology Academy at Knights Landing|6|Last year we tried to administer the CA Healthy Student survey. It was new for us and only 5 of our students took it.  It didn’t give an accurate picture of our school climate so we decided to give our students the same Student Survey that we gave them last year.  The data showed what we had both anticipated and feared. Students’ responses to questions about school environment, school connectedness, community building and even academic motivation reveals a negative shift in how our students are feeling.   Our data reveals that we are seeing a reduction in the percentage of students who are feeling satisfied in most areas. Part of what is challenging about this is that in an effort to generate honest answers we made our survey anonymous. Therefore it is unclear as what part of our student population is feeling the unrest.  As a charter we pride ourselves on fostering a strong community on our campus because both physical distance and curriculum differences set us apart from the other elementary schools in our district. Due to a lack of inner-district community we try to bolster our students’ sense of community by having buddy groups, multi-age collaborative learning and other all school events which bring the school together as a unified body.   In response to that data we have decided to create focus groups in each class and visit all of the topics that are covered in the survey. Together students and staff will highlight positives and brainstorm ways to create an environment in which students feel safe, included, and supported both academically and socially. We will evaluate the information, formulate a plan and implement it immediately. We will then re-administer this same survey in the spring to evaluate whether or not the changes we put in place have positive impact on student satisfaction.|2019-10-30|Summary of 2019-20 Student Survey  School Environment Scales Students responded to statements such as: I feel safe at my school, My teacher would give me help if I needed it, My teacher really cares about me, and Most students at Sci-Tech treat each other with respect  School safety: Yes (68.7%), Sometimes (27.5%) and No (3.8%)  Total school supports:  Yes (77.3%), Sometime (18.5%) and No (4.3%) Caring adults in school: Yes (82.9.3%), Sometime (12.3%) and No (4.7%) Caring peers in school: Yes (45.5%), Sometime (46.4%) and No (8.1%)  In addition students were asked: What is your favorite school event? Student responded:  In school: Big Science Friday: 67% Egg Drop Day: 60% Class Field Trip: 77% BBQ Day: 71% All School Field Trip: 78%  School Connectedness, Community Building and Academic Motivation Scales Students responded to statements such as: I feel part of Sci-Tech and I try to do my best in school  School connectedness: moderate Yes (69%), Sometime (25.1%) and No (5.7%) Academic motivation: moderate Yes (84.8 %), Sometime (12.4%) and No (2.9%)  Events enjoyed that took place after school hours   Harvest Festival: 67% Dia de los Muertos: 65% Kermes: 55% Art Night: 59% Ice Cream Social: 70%  Beautification Day: 27%  Pi  Night: 45%|Met|2019
12630240000000|Scotia Union Elementary|6|The Scotia Union School District administers a student school climate survey (The California Healthy Kids Survey) every two years.  The last survey was completed in the spring of 2018, and the next will be completed in the spring of 2020.  The results of the most recent survey of fifth and seventh graders, in relation to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness, are as follows: Grades 5 (18 total students)  and 7 (16 total students): feel safe      5) 83% 7)53% caring adults    5) 72% 7)42%  feel connected   5) 72% 7) 53% treated fairly    5) 67% 7) 33% This data shows that of those surveyed, the fifth grade students' perceptions of safety and connectedness are higher than the seventh grade students' perceptions.  These numbers correlate with the results regarding perceptions of caring adults at school and being treated fairly.  In response to this data, the school is implementing a social emotional growth and development program for all students, with a focus on the implementation of a peer mediation program. The school also has a counselor, who is meeting with upper grade students to gauge and assist with their feelings of perceived school safety and connectedness.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
47764550000000|Scott Valley Unified|6|SVUSD deploys the Healthy Kids Survey every other year.  Our last survey was deployed in the 2017-2018 school year, and will be issued again in the winter of the 2019-2020 school year.  Overall our students report  healthy behaviors, with significant spikes in use of chew tobacco and alcohol.  77% of our 7th graders, 98% of our 9th graders, and 91% of our 11th graders responded to the survey.  Areas of significant focus have been chew tobacco intervention, Alcohol and drug intervention and prevention ( through Athlete Committed and Every 15 minutes activities).   Further, inspirational speakers and digital safety ( through Human Trafficking presentations and educational seminars) have been a focus.   Further, a more stringent athletic policy ( over 85% of our students are one or more season athletes) has served to engage students around healthy behaviors.  Challenges and barriers presented is the local culture of "kids will be kids" , the recently passed legalization of marijuana, and the increase of vaping across our student population.    We have adjusted our intervention and prevention currriculum to address these barriers and changes.|2019-10-16|Further we have deployed a local survey, each spring, to our students and families to seek more local guidance on how we can better support their students in healthy life style choices.  In addition, we have sought and received the Farm to School planning grant, to help students understand the connection between and process of Farm to Table.  Finally, we have partnered with First Five, the Family Resource Center, and the local Quartz Valley Indian Reservation to provide inspirational and educational speakers and seminars to increase the capacity of our students and families to make healthy choices.|Met|2019
44754320000000|Scotts Valley Unified|6|Students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in the spring of 2019, an anonymous, confidential survey of school climate and safety, student wellness, and youth resiliency.  It is administered to students at grades five, seven, nine, and eleven, and 87% of students participated overall.  SVUSD reviewed the results from the 2016-17 administration of the CHKS and compared them to the results in 2018-19.  School Connectedness  5th grade: average across the two sites improved by 9%, to a high of 80% 7th grade: 65% to 64% 9th grade: 62% to 61% 11th grade: improved by 11% to 59% Students appear to feel more connected in elementary school than in the secondary grades.  Caring Adults 5th grade: average across the two sites improved by 12%, to a high of 76% 7th grade: improved by 25% to 62% 9th grade: improved by 33% to 62% 11th grade: improved by 23% to 67% This was our greatest area of growth.  There was specific focus during the 2018-19 on Tier I interventions, specifically having adults reach out to students in a variety of ways.  Meaningful Participation 5th grade: average across the two sites improved by 26%, to 44% at both sites. 7th grade: improved by 15% to 29% 9th grade: improved by 16% to 28% 11th grade: improved by 17% to 27% While there has been growth in Meaningful Participation, this is a still an area of focus.  Although it is not clear how the questions are interpreted, ensuring that students feel that they are involved in decision making is an important effort.  Students Who Reported Feeling Safe At School 5th grade: Brook Knoll decreased by 6% to 91%, while Vine Hill stayed the same                    (88%) 7th grade: decreased by 10% to 65% 9th grade: decreased by 7% to 65% 11th grade:  decreased by 4% to 71% School safety continues to be a priority in SVUSD.  The decrease is apparent both across years and cohort groups. Without commentary on the answers, it is unclear whether students are only answering their feelings of safety while they are at school.  Analysis of change and next steps:  SVUSD attributes much of the growth on the CHKS to students’ access to full-time counselors at all four sites.  We will continue our efforts in responding to students social and emotional needs by increasing access to school based counseling, infusing sitewide social and emotional curriculum into lessons and presentations, and increasing project-based-learning opportunities and choice for students. Proposed ideas for further implementation and growth includes:  Student PBIS Teams and greater visibility of Student Council program/students, increased opportunity for input on programs within the classroom setting, focus on Tier 3 student needs to better reach at-risk students, and the full implementation Tiered Teams in PBIS.|2019-10-22|Scotts Valley Unified School District is in its fourth year of PBIS. There are structures and strategies at all four sites that support all students, including dedicated counselors and Tier I, II and III teams. The focus for 2018-19 was ensuring that Tier I systems were fully integrated across the district, with a specific focus moving forward on increased implementation and understanding of Tier Ii and III strategies.|Met|2019
37683380121681|SD Global Vision Academy|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: SD Global Vision Academy administered an internal student survey in order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  A total of 112 students in grades 3, 5, & 7 participated and completed the student survey, a 30% student participation rate.  NOTE: Interpret results with caution.  SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES  The following are the findings from the student survey: Students were asked… • “Do you feel safe coming to school?” 65.2% stated Often; 28.6% Sometimes • “Do you feel like you are part of the school?” 56.3% Often; 36.6% Sometimes • “Students are kind to one another.” 17% Often; 66.1% Sometimes • “My School is kept clean.” “50% Often, 41.1% Sometimes • “Do teachers and other adults at the school care about you?” 61.6% Yes, all of the time; 36.6% Yes, most of the time. • “Do teachers and other adults make it clear that bullying is not allowed.” 78.6% Yes, all of the time; 19.6% Yes, most of the time.  The School’s Director will research a valid evidence-based student survey for implementation in Spring 2020 to ensure accurate survey reporting and adherence to the CDE requirements outlined in the LCAP and Priority 6 School Climate.|2019-09-17||Met|2019
49709386113039|Sebastopol Independent Charter|6|Students from grades 6-8 responded to a survey that the teaches and administration created for these grade levels. The results indicated that the students feel well supported by their teachers. The students feel both physically and emotionally safe at the school. The students indicated that they know where to find help when needed and that they will get the help they need. Some students complained that they receive too much homework. Some students indicated that they are not always clear about school rules. As a result of this survey, the teachers and administration created a middle school student handbook to clarify rules and protocols. We have also clarified rules through posting posters in the classrooms (grades K-8) and the teachers go over all the expectations with the students periodically.|2019-10-07|We have a strong social inclusion curriculum in which students are taught to identify bullying and what to do in those situations. The 8th grade students are taught to monitor and intervene in social inclusion situations that need attention. We have implemented a restorative discipline curriculum in which most conflict is resolved through restorative practices facilitated by trained teachers. We have a discipline tracking system that informs teachers and parents about students' progress in various behavior situations.|Met|2019
49709380000000|Sebastopol Union Elementary|6|Five items within the parent survey comprised elements of school climate, such as teacher support for students, homework expectations, respect and school discipline. Ratings were generally positive. First, and most highly rated of these items, was the idea that SUSD teachers are caring and supportive of their students. This was rated on average 3.53, between “agree” and “strongly agree.” Also highly rated was the feeling that teachers do their best to help students reach their potential. There was agreement that students are respectful to teachers and staff, homework amounts are mostly appropriate, and discipline policies are consistently implemented across students.    Parents view the schools as safe places for their children overall with a rating of 3.41 out of 4.0. Of three specific concerns listed (bullying, alcohol and drugs, and physical fights), only bullying is was characterized between a small and moderate problem (2.86), where a small problem would be a 3.0 and a moderate problem would be rated at a 2.0.   Parents gave positive ratings to all aspects of school climate on average. The most highly rated item was given for teachers care and support of students (3.53/4.00). Parents agreed that their schools do a good job providing children with a well-rounded education (3.22). Only two items fell shy of full agreement; involvement in extracurricular activities (2.94), and nutrition with healthy and appealing school lunches (2.59). Each type of extracurricular programming received positive ratings as providing value for children.   Overall, parents report that their schools are welcoming to them (3.38), that families are treated with respect (3.48), and encourage the participation and involvement of all families.   School Climate will always be an area of focus for Sebastopol Union.  We feel the district has made huge gains in the area via better communication tools.  Student support services need to continue to be integrated and more funding from the state in the area is needed, specifically for counseling.  More bilingual communication and supports have been implemented.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
13632220000000|Seeley Union Elementary|6|Seeley Union School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey, to all 7th grade students during the 2018-19 school year. Key findings from the survey, related to seeking input from students about school climate are as follows. 66% of the students perceive school as a safe or very safe place to be.  Of the students surveyed, 38% stated they had mean rumors or lies spread about them and 22% felt like they had been bullied at one time. In regard to school engagement and support, 59% felt connected to school and 66% felt they were motivated to do well academically. 79% believed their teachers had high expectations for them to succeed. Seeley Union School District uses the collected data to help inform decisions when writing the LCAP. After reviewing the current data, the 38% of students that felt like mean rumors or lies had been spread about them prompted the LCAP team to include the counselor in planning an intervention to reduce this number during the next school year.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
47704580000000|Seiad Elementary|6|Parents/guardians and community members surveyed in the spring of 2019, indicated the school is promoting family participation and that students and families feel that the school is a safe place. Families feel the school listens to their needs, the staff are accessible and intervention and cultural programs are being addressed by the school. Students enjoy the clubs offered and can obtain help with their homework at school.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
10624300000000|Selma Unified|6|Selma Unified Trends in Key Indicators   Selma Unified administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in 5th, 7th, and 11th grades at district schools in May of 2019.  Previously, we had administered the survey in spring of 2017.  The data now allows us to do a comparison of the 2 years.   Results of the survey indicate that School Connectedness improved in grade 11 by 13% and at the non-traditional site by 14%.  It showed a slight decline in 7th grade, and a 6% decline in 5th grade.    In the area of Academic Motivation, the survey results indicate percentages progressing up in all grades except 5th grade, where there was a decline of 5%.    The survey shows that in the area of Caring Adults in School/Caring Relationships, there was a decline of 5% in 5th grade, and a decline in 7th grade of 3%.  There was an improvement in 11th grade of 6%, and 2% for the non-traditional site.     In regard to Feeling Safe at School/School Perceived as Safe, there was an upward movement of the data, indicating improvement in all grades except 5th grade, which had a decline of 4%.    Results of the 5th grade area of Students Treated with Respect, showed an improvement of 3% from 2017 to 2019.    In the area of E-cigarette use, all grades either had no change, or had a decline in percentage, which in this case, is good.    The results were reviewed by the administration from each school site at the July 30th site leader meeting, which generated discussion about how to include these goals in the SPSA plans in order to better monitor school climate progress.  Sites were given a comprehensive data aggregation summary that would allow them to set measurable school and district goals, with the overarching goal being to improve school safety, climate, and culture by providing safe, consistent, and secure learning environments at all levels of our district.    During the 2018-2019 school year, professional development sessions on Social Emotional Learning was offered to teachers and administrators.  This training may have attributed to the improvement in CHKS scores for the areas of Academic Motivation, Feeling Safe at School/School Perceived as Safe, and Students Treated With Respect.     Also during the 2018-2019 school year, a District Discipline Task Force was implemented to help support school sites.  The task force is comprised of educators with expertise in varying areas such as academics, behavior, mental health, and language.  The task force meets consistently and has developed a tiered system of behavioral support for the school sites.  The task force will continue to meet during the 2019-2020 school year to enhance support systems across the district.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
15637680000000|Semitropic Elementary|6|Students in grades 3rd-8th were surveyed on school climate. 88.3% of students answered that they (strongly agree/agree) feel safe at Semitropic. While 11.7% strongly disagree/disagree feeling safe at Semitropic. 89.5% of students responded strongly agree/agree to teachers treating students fairly at Semitropic. When responding to the question, if there is a teacher or other adult who cares about them at school, 94% of the students responded with strongly agree/agree and 6% of the students responded with disagree. Overall, the students in 3rd-8th grade responded in a way the corresponds to a positive school climate The results of the survey were shared with the board and public at a public board meeting in October.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
54721166054340|Sequoia Elementary Charter|6|Based upon the LEA's in-depth assessment of student's feeling of school safety and trust of adults, it was clearly visable that student trust in adults deteriorated as students got older.  Over 60% of 4th and 5th grade students felt the school was safe and that they could trust adults.  These results dropped to 20% of Junior High students felt safe and that they could trust adults.  As a result of this information the LEA worked to become part of the Tulare County Mental Health Wellness Triage, and increased the efforts of our School Psychologist to interact with students.  All students and staff were introduced to Character Development programs and Restorative Discipline Practices.  Sequoia Youth Services and Community Groups were invited onto the campus to help bolster student impression of adults overall, and to regain a sense of safety on the campus.  As a direct result of these efforts students are confident that they can reach out to adults and be heard and valued.  Major discipline concerns are far less frequent then they had been in the past.  Altercations are limited.  Chronic Absenteeism has been effectively eliminated.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
54721160000000|Sequoia Union Elementary|6|The LEA has compiled data which indicates that School Safety of a physical nature has improved.  As a result of this same data much effort has been made to increase the LEA's effort related to Social Emotional Learning (SEL).  As a result the LEA became part of the first Mental Health Wellness Triage offered through a State Grant.  The LEA joined the Sandy Hook Promise Program for this same reason.  Local Community Members are also coming onto the campus to work with potentially "At-Risk" students to ensure that they know that they are valued.    Clothing Standards are being reviewed by staff, Parent Guild & School Site Council members, and members of the community to determine how to make the standards easier to understand, less restrictive, and relevant to what is readily available in stores.  Additionally, the goal is to make the School Board Clothing policies more homogenous, and not negatively impacting any student regardless of age, nationality or orientation.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
41690620000000|Sequoia Union High|6|The District uses the Panorama Student Survey to analyze the climate and culture at each school site, and district wide.  The survey measures student perceptions of school safety and connectedness both at large and within subgroups. The survey was administered to 7,140 students across all grades and specific subgroups (to include English Language status, ethnicity/race, gender, foster/homeless status,etc.  Takeaways from the 2018-2019 survey include the following:  Safety: perceptions of student physical and psychological safety at school Students feel safe at school as compared to other national high school responses; district scores are in the 80th percentile, even though the overall resulting score is down slightly (0.1) from the 2017-2018 survey How often are people disrespectful to others at your school? Resulting score of 3.2/5 corresponds with a response of “sometimes” This score is up 0.1 (positive) from the 2017-2018 survey How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online? Resulting score of 4.2/5 corresponds with a response of “slightly likely” How often do you worry about violence at your school? Resulting score of 4.1/5 corresponds with a response of “once in a while” This score is down 0.1 (negative) from the 2017-2018 survey How often do students get into physical fights at your school? Resulting score of 3.7/5 corresponds with a response of “once in a while” This score is down 0.1 (negative) from the 2017-2018 survey There are no significant differences in this safety survey data for any specific subgroup(s); all subgroups consistently scored similarly for all safety-related questions  Perceptions of the overall social and learning climate of the school The overall score in this climate-focused section of the survey was 3.4/5, resulting in the 20th percentile of similar national high schools This score is identical to that from the 2017-2018 survey data How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes? Resulting score of 3.5/5 corresponds with a response close to “frequently” There are a very limited number of significant differences in this climate survey data for any specific subgroup(s); the majority of subgroups consistently scored similarly for all climate-related questions   The results of the survey data shows strengths in overall school safety and a slight increase in student perceptions of fair rules at their schools. The survey data also shows a major challenge in the overall social and learning climate of schools within our district. An interesting statistical note is that the majority of student subgroups scored very similarly for questions in these two survey data fields. The one significant discrepancy was for Black/African American students feeling school rules were neither fair nor unfair.|2019-10-16|The aforementioned survey data demonstrates a need to dig deeper into student perceptions on school climate; resulting data corresponding to the 20th percentile shows a need for vast improvement. Some of the strategies and supports/services that have been put into place this school year, based on this survey data from last year, include: heterogeneous class grouping for freshmen in some mathematics and science courses; planning and implementation of a multi-tiered system of support (MTSS) including the increase of tier I interventions for all students related to social-emotional learning, behavior, and academics; integrating an attendance monitoring system with a focus on truancy and chronic absenteeism; and a level I and level II alternative to suspension for substance abuse and co-occuring behavior.  The school safety and school climate sections of the Panorama survey utilized six (6) questions and five (5) questions, respectively. The number of response choices ranged from five (5) to (7), making comparisons between the raw score (i.e. 4.2/5) and the title of response (i.e. “sometimes”) difficult. While the District feels that the survey used provided helpful input as to students' feelings about school safety and climate, we realized there is a need to focus on targeted questions that go deeper into safety and climate. To that end, we will be implementing the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in addition to the Panorama Survey in the 2019-2020 school year.|Met|2019
19647336019111|Serrania Avenue Charter For Enriched Studies|6|Based upon the 2018-2019 School Experience Survey results for students, Serrania’s results were closely aligned to the overall LAUSD survey results. Based upon feedback from 94% of the students in grades 3 to 5: the strengths include 81% of the students feel like they are a part of the school, 83% feel happy to be at the school, and 82% of students feel safe in this school.  The challenges are that 38% of the students have had mean rumors or lies spread about them and 35% have been pushed, shoved, slapped, hit, or kicked by someone who wasn’t just kidding around. Areas of improvement include: only 28% of the students at the school feel students are kind to each other, only 55% of the students know how they are expected to act, and only 57% of students feel they have a voice in decision-making at the school.  In response to the results, the school has scheduled behavior assemblies for all grade levels, established a Kindness Club that meets weekly and coordinates year-round events, and is exploring a Peer Mediation group and launching a Student Council. These clubs and organizations will provide students with positive reminders for behavior and expectations. They also provide students with an added sense of responsibility towards each other and build their connection with the school.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
18641880000000|Shaffer Union Elementary|6|Connectedness Students surveyed using the California Healthy Kids Survey reported 68% very high school connectedness at Shaffer School, 69% shared having caring adult relationships, 73% reported that the school has high expectations, 69% reported being academically motivated, and 76% reported that there is high parent involvement the schools.  An area of concern needing to be addressed is that only 30% reported having a high level of meaningful participation. Safety Students surveyed using the California Healthy Kids Survey  82% perceived Shaffer School as safe or very safe.  Areas of concern were that 63% reported having experienced harassment or bullying, 63% had experienced rumors or lies being shared about them, 27% reported being afraid of being beaten up, 47% reported that they had been in a fight, and 20% reported through this survey that they had seen a weapon on campus.|2019-04-16||Met|2019
40688330000000|Shandon Joint Unified|6|In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey, which is done every other year, the LEA surveyed high school students this year on a variety of topics.  On topics such as "My teachers believe in me" and "My teachers care about me", 60% of the respondents agreed.  Additionally, 61% of students believe that teacher are readily available to help.  Of great importance to the LEA, 63% of students "feel safe inside my school".  This data is in addition to last year's reporting of the California Healthy Kids Survey.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
45701364530267|Shasta Charter Academy|6|The standard is for the LEA to administer a local climate survey at least every other year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. A local climate survey is planned to be given later in the current school year. School enrollment is up and feedback from students and parents has been positive.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
45104540132647|Shasta County Independent Study|6||||Not Met|2019
45104540000000|Shasta County Office of Education|6|We created a survey modeled after the Healthy Kids survey.  Our responses indicated that parents are interested in both parenting classes, as well as, presentations about post-high school opportunities. We plan to present these offerings in the evening with a light dinner and childcare available. The results also indicated that students feel safe and welcome on our campus. Our parents appreciated our efforts to meet students at their unique level, while offering extra help in small groups led by a credentialed intervention teacher. At Juvenile Court school, parents will attend IEPs, but do not always attend weekend informational meetings held by our staff. We plan to staff this facility during visiting hours to facilitate making those necessary connections with these parents. We have also incorporated the assistance of our IT department to endeavor to provide more online access to research and curriculum--safely. All schools appreciated that they feel welcomed by our staffs. As all of our schools provide a small-group or individual instructional model, it provides close relationships by design. Our biggest challenge is getting parents to come to gatherings where information/support is provided. We continue to explore ways to entice families to come to our campus after working all day. We have had success offering dinner during our awards ceremony on a Friday evening.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
45701280000000|Shasta Union Elementary|6|Fourth through eighth grade students participated in an annual climate survey. Eighty-one percent of students reported feeling safe. This was an increase of three percent from the previous year. Seventy-five percent of fourth through eighth grade students reported feeling a sense of connectedness. This was an increase of seven percent from the previous year. The increase of students feeling safe and connected can be seen as a correlation of one hundred percent of teachers reporting the use of Capturing Kids Hearts strategies within his/her classroom. An action to continue improvement will be continuing to provide staff development in the area of Capturing Kids Hearts and Positive Behavior Intervention Support.|2019-06-24||Met|2019
45701360000000|Shasta Union High|6|As an LEA we know that school climate is strongly impacts the learning environment for all students. Every child is entitles to a safe and peaceful learning environment and they all should feel respected and cared for so they can successfully learn. Positive school climate is a shared responsibility that has to be continually discussed and measured to sustain a positive climate on campuses. As an LEA, we have meaningful discussions with parents at Site Council meetings and at parent nights about school climate. We participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year. This survey gives us a good indicator of our students perceptions of school climate and safety. Engaging students, staff, parents, and community  members communicates to stakeholders that we value them and it gives them the opportunity to participate in the process and make our schools better. Our students report that 94% of them understand English and we have a proficiency rate of 88%. Knowing this information helps us to know that we are getting good data from the majority of our students. Our students report that 88% of them have been truant less than 2 days in the prior twelve months. this reinforces our campaign to stress the importance of school attendance. In addition, only 1% of our students reported that they missed school due to bullying or being mistreated. We would like to see this number be zero and we have mad a concerted effort to eliminate bullying at school. Both of these high percents we feel are a direct outcome of our efforts to encourage kids to come to school and to treat others with respect. Only 12% of our students feel like there is not a teacher or adult in the school who cares about them. While this percentage is low, we would like it to be lower and have shared this data with our staff to stress the importance of showing the students that you care about them and are willing to listen to them. 62% of students reported that they are happy to be at their school and only 5% reported that they did not feel safe at their school. This reinforces our commitment to providing a Campus Security Officer and a School Resource Officer on all of our campuses. 81% of our students reported that the agree or strongly agree that they try hard to make sure that they are good at school work. We feel like this is vindication of our constant effort to encourage students to do their best. 44% of our parents reported that they feel welcome to participate at our schools and only 5% of our parents felt unwelcome. We have instituted multi language calls to our parents and monthly newsletters so parents have a better idea of what is happening at our schools and are encouraged to take part. A minimum 88% of our students district-wide have never been harassed for race, religion,  gender, sexual orientation, or mental/physical disabilities. 99% of our students report that they have never carried a gun on school property and 94% report never carrying a weapon of any kind!|2019-09-11||Met|2019
45699480139543|Shasta View Academy|6|Shasta View Academy (SVA) is a new school offering a Personalized Learning/Independent Study model.  The school will administer a local climate survey in the spring of 2020 that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The surveys will be developed by SVA staff for Parents, Students grades 5-8, and High School Students which include questions specifically designed and tailored to the uniqueness of our school programs and student population.    Throughout the year, prior to the surveys, SVA will be dedicated to creating a climate of open communication and connectivity with all stakeholders.  Teachers have direct and consistent communication with their assigned families creating close relationships and cooperation. The school is committed to building a strong school community.  One tool used to create that community is Parent Square, an internal communication system used to notify staff, parents, and students about school activities, field trips, and updates important to the school operations.  Our school encourages interaction between families by offering parent workshops, monthly field trips, parent meetings, and Advisory Council meetings. Educational opportunities offered at the resource center will encourage peer interaction and create a positive local school climate.  To date, SVA parents and students have consistently reported that they feel connected and pleased to be part of our school family.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
03100330129692|Shenandoah Valley|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
43693936046692|Sherman Oaks Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
19647336019186|Sherman Oaks Elementary Charter|6|Sherman Oaks Elementary Charter administered the 2018 -2019 School Experience Survey during the fall semester to 4th and 5th graders.  The participation rate for this survey was 94%.  The following are the questions that pertain to the school climate and the % of students indicating Yes, Always / Strongly Agree are noted next to the question.  Are you happy to be at this school? 88% Do you feel like you are part of this school? 77% Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 80% Do you feel safe at this school?  84% Sherman Oaks Elementary Charter school will continue working on creating a positive school climate, conducting school wide assemblies on behavior expectations/bullying, implementing growth mindset strategies and continue our work with restorative justice.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
20652430100016|Sherman Thomas Charter|6|The data derived from student climate surveys indicate that our students believe that their teachers are caring and respectful (91%), that their teachers know and understand how to help them (88%), and that teachers expect them to do their best and learn at a high level (91%).  A majority of students reported that they feel safe at school (68%).  These data help us understand that the instructional and relational methods we have adopted are meeting the needs of most of our students. Our analysis suggests that student perceptions of school safety would be an important area of focus.  We would like to find out more about our students’ perceptions of safety and how we might ensure that all students feel safe while on campus.  In order to further strengthen our school climate and culture, we added a school spirit week this year that focused on what it means to be a student at Sherman Thomas.  We also added a social emotional curriculum that is being implemented for all grade levels.  We plan to continue our training and implementation of MTSS Tier 2 supports, including work on Trauma Informed Practices, Interventions for academic need as well as behavior needs, and Restorative Practices.  Finally, we intend to further survey our students regarding their perceptions of various facets of school safety.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
20652430118950|Sherman Thomas Charter High|6|1. DATA: Reflect on the key learnings from the survey results and share what the LEA learned.  The data derived from student climate surveys indicate that: A.) 83% of students feel/believe they are a part of this school. B.) 74% of students feel/believe the teachers at this school treat student’s fairly and with respect. C.) 72% of students feel/believe the teachers know and understand their individual needs. D.) 92% of students feel/believe this school promotes academic success for each student. E.) 89% of students feel/believe this school is supportive and an inviting place for students to learn. F.) 87% of students feel/believe staff at this school encourage them to work hard so they can be successful in college or at the job      of their choose. G.) 88% of students feel/believe this school makes it clear how students are expected to act. H.) 71% of students feel/believe this school helps students resolve conflicts with one another. I.)  78% of students feel safe while at school. J.) 66% of students feel/believe communication among STCHS staff and student is open and effective. K.) 85% of students feel/believe this school has equipped them with the skills and knowledge they need to get a job after high       school, get job training, and/or go to college.  2. MEANING: What do the disaggregated results (if applicable) of the survey and other data collection methods reveal about schools in the LEA, such as areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers?  Our analysis suggests that student perceptions of 1.) staff understanding each students individual needs, 2.) open and effective communication, and 3.) conflict resolution are an important area of focus.  We would like to find out more avenues of communication that student feel would be more effective, as well as, continue to build relationships with all students.     3. USE: What revisions, decisions, or actions has, or will, the LEA implement in response to the results for continuous improvement purposes? Why? If you have already implemented actions, did you see the results you were seeking?  In order to further strengthen our school climate and culture, we added a thorough and purposeful curriculum to our homeroom class that focuses on school climate, culture, understanding policies, life skills, etc.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
20652430134510|Sherman Thomas STEM Academy|6|According to our most recent student survey, 96% are satisfied with our school (overall), 97% say they feel safe at school, 98% feel the teachers cares about them, 98% feel the principal cares about them, 81% feel yard duty cares about them, and 97% feel that their teacher has high expectations of them and believe they can be successful. Our teachers and administration do care very much about the students and work hard to create a school where kids feel safe and are encouraged and challenged. Based on these results, we are pleased to see that it has been conveyed effectively to the students, with so many liking school and feeling that those teaching and leading them care about them and believe in them. Our lowest area and one that we are working to improve is in terms of yard duty perception. While 81% is still a great percentage of our students, and we realize the nature of the job is often one of discipline, it is still not in line with how students responded overall and shows there's a disconnect there. It is an area we are addressing and are hoping that when we conduct our survey in the spring, we see a higher response. We also had several questions regarding our program - subjects, novels we teach, field trips, Friday Challenge Days (special projects). What we found is that all areas had high favorable responses from students (all activities received many votes as being a favorite). Conclusions we can draw from that, are that we are creating a program that is meeting the needs of all students. While nothing received all of the votes, everything received many votes. Some students gravitate to building projects, others art, others creating things. This has created a culture where all students get to participate in activities that they are passionate about, while exposing students to a variety of opportunities that stretch them, and might not be in their comfort zone.|2019-10-22|At the beginning of every year (this is our third year of existence), we have done something that we call "Raven Boot Camp." We spend that time keeping the entire school together all day and discussing "what it means to be a Raven." Through that, we work on some remedial skills, rules, and have several activities where students are grouped (which we do before school starts) in a way that allows them to meet everyone - quickly assimilating all students. Right out of the gate, we are intentional on creating our "Raven Culture" - the pillars of which are hard work, unity, and support of one another. We celebrate successes. We talk to the students about how they are co-workers and you have to be able to respect and work with your co-workers. I believe this intentional work on culture, that we dedicate so much time to at the beginning of the year, and develop through conversations throughout the year, is the biggest key to a successful school climate.|Met|2019
04614240121475|Sherwood Montessori|6|We administered a School Survey for parents and other stakeholders during the 2018-2019 with results summarized in our 2019-2020 LCAP. Students were also surveyed to collect school climate data. Results for the 2018-2019 school year were reviewed with the LCAP Focus Group. Results indicated that there was an increase of parents who responded to the survey indicating that they were satisfied or very satisfied overall with the school climate in general, and 0% were very dissatisfied. There was an increase in satisfaction related to the opportunities the school extended for learning about the Montessori method.  Providing school lunch resulted in a positive school climate because students were well-nourished while at school. Parents of low-income students were able to access school events when free child care was provided. This year, we are continuing to provide free and reduced lunch opportunity and funds for field trips. We are continuing to offer Parent Education events, with free child care and refreshments.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
50712740121558|Shiloh Charter|6|Local Climate Survey Summary The California Healthy Kids Survey was conducted for Shiloh ESD 7th Grade students by the Stanislaus County Office of Education in February of 2019. The results were presented to Shiloh Elementary School District Board of Trustees in 2019. The results which have been summarized below were viewed as positive. Regarding key indicators for School Engagement and Support,  most students indicated that they felt a high level of connectedness, most students felt moderate to high Academic Motivation, few to none students indicated that they had been Truant more than a few times, students felt moderate to high that they had Caring adult relationships and that adults had high expectations of them and of students indicated they had a moderate to high opinion regarding Meaningful participation in school. In regard to School Safety, most students perceive school as very safe or safe. When evaluating Mental and Physical Health, few to none of 7th graders responding indicated that they participate in current alcohol or drug use, binge drinking, get very drunk or "high", currently smoke, experience chronic sadness or have considered suicide.  In addition, the district conducted a survey in the Spring of 2019 which gathered feedback from parents regarding school climate. Questions regarding school safety, supervision and general friendliness and respect amongst staff, parents and students indicated that most parents who responded agreed or strongly agreed that the school is doing well in these areas, with very few of parents having a neutral opinion and few disagreeing.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50712740000000|Shiloh Elementary|6|Local Climate Survey Summary The California Healthy Kids Survey was conducted for Shiloh ESD 7th Grade students by the Stanislaus County Office of Education in February of 2019. The results were presented to Shiloh Elementary School District Board of Trustees in 2019. The results which have been summarized below were viewed as positive. Regarding key indicators for School Engagement and Support,  most students indicated that they felt a high level of connectedness, most students felt moderate to high Academic Motivation, few to none students indicated that they had been Truant more than a few times, students felt moderate to high that they had Caring adult relationships and that adults had high expectations of them and of students indicated they had a moderate to high opinion regarding Meaningful participation in school. In regard to School Safety, most students perceive school as very safe or safe. When evaluating Mental and Physical Health, few to none of 7th graders responding indicated that they participate in current alcohol or drug use, binge drinking, get very drunk or "high", currently smoke, experience chronic sadness or have considered suicide.  In addition, the district conducted a survey in the Spring of 2019 which gathered feedback from parents regarding school climate. Questions regarding school safety, supervision and general friendliness and respect amongst staff, parents and students indicated that most parents who responded agreed or strongly agreed that the school is doing well in these areas, with very few of parents having a neutral opinion and few disagreeing.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
21733610000000|Shoreline Unified|6|The District administers the Youth Truth Survey to all students, grades 3 - 12, all staff, and all parents. Results from all groups indicated a need to work to develop stronger relationships. That has inspired our work in the Excellence Through Equity project.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
37684520106120|SIATech|6|A school climate survey that was developed by AdvancEd is administered every year. The survey is mailed to parents of minor students with a self-addressed & stamped envelope. Survey results were shared with the board in May and are reviewed as part of the annual data review that the school uses to set and inform goals.  The school also participates in the Gallup Student Poll that provides information regarding school safety and climate and these results are also analyzed annually.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19753090131383|SIATech Academy South|6|A school climate survey that was developed by AdvancEd is administered every year. The survey is mailed to parents of minor students with a self-addressed & stamped envelope. Survey results were shared with the board in May and are reviewed as part of the annual data review that the school uses to set and inform goals.  The school also participates in the Gallup Student Poll that provides information regarding school safety and climate and these results are also analyzed annually.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
29663570124834|Sierra Academy of Expeditionary Learning|6|The 18-19 CHKS survey showed that there is a positive school culture at SAEL and our indicators are more positive than the state averages. We believe this is directly connected to our explicit focus on character development with character grades, reflections, teambuilding, fieldwork, and Crew Advisor relationships and daily Crew classes. The majority of students feel safe and connected at SAEL, especially with having encouraging adults, help with school work, and having a supportive environment. Students expressed there were high expectations from adults at SAEL as well as strong social emotional learning. School connectedness and support does vary by grade level cohort. 9th and 10th graders were lower in self reporting that there were adults at SAEL who care about them, notice when they are absent, and/or listen to them when they have something to say in comparison to the 11th and 12th graders. The feeling of connectedness, directly related to the Academic Mindset of belonging, became a focus for our Character Working Group as we planned next steps in focusing character-related curriculum in our Adventure / PE classes, our Crew classes, and fieldwork. Crew PD was implemented to increase the teacher tools, resources, and open lines of communication with the Dean and Counselor to support all learners in their advisory classes. This was based on the CHKS data that showed belonging and connectedness can vary significantly by grade level cohort and that students can feel like they are less connected when they first arrive at the school (compared to when we launched in 14-15 with only 70 kids in the whole school). We are still engaging in a survey on Academic Mindsets with Univ of Chicago which will give us mid-year information about students sense of belonging which will also allow us to focus in the spring where we see gaps based on what the data will show us. 25% of SAEL students self reported that they had been absent 3 or more days in the past 30 days of school. It continues to be illness or feeling stressed, sad, hopeless, anxious, or angry and NOT bullying that students self-report as reasons for not coming to school. The Character Dean now meets regularly with the Attendance Aide to support the understanding of and communication home about the importance of attendance. Before the SARB process is started, families are getting emails home more frequently and in addition to the daily notification of a single absence. PD for Crew Advisors was improved to include support around attendance monitoring and proactive strategies for supporting students to engage in school. This included PD hosted by the Dean and Counselor to continue to encourage Crew Advisors to reach out for support or to bring students onto the radar if they notice they are disengaging or expressing feelings of sadness or hopelessness.|2019-10-14|SAEL values the development of non-cognitive skills as well as academic skills. This has helped create a school culture that is used to connecting with students and families about character development through character grading, reflection, data collection, and analysis. This means we also engage in a Character-based Parent Focus Group and Character-based Senior Exit Interviews / Focus Groups. We also then incorporate CHKS data into a PD session with teachers where we talk about all character data collected and analyzed to figure out our areas of strength, areas of growth, and next steps. Character data comes from CHKS, parts of the SAEL Survey, parts of the EL Implementation Review, student character grades, the research survey with University of Chicago on Academic Mindsets, and the annual SAEL Character Survey. These are all helpful data in understanding CHKS results and moving our work forward as a Character Working Group and a school.|Met|2019
10621660114355|Sierra Charter|6|The 2018-19 surveys conducted at SCS for parent engagement indicated that the school is very good at communicating all information and that they listen to any concerns or opinions/suggestions; parents feel a part of the learning process and are encouraged to be involved; and the survey was designed to provide information for WASC, Title I and LCAP.  One-on-one oral surveys are conducted regularly by each teacher when meeting with the student or parents.  Information gathered from these meetings are shared with administration and at monthly staff meetings.  Any concerns are immediately addressed.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
46104620000000|Sierra County Office of Education|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
31669440121624|Sierra Expeditionary Learning|6|School surveys have regularly indicated a high satisfaction rate (greater than 80%) among students and families with the program. Students feel safe, engaged, and excited to be at school. As a small school we are unable to disaggregate data since subgroup numbers are too small to be helpful. That said, occasional feedback reflects our small size and a desire for more students to interact with and/or more programming to choose from. At this point we do not feel there are large areas of change or growth. We constantly monitor school culture and climate and make changes as things are noticed or reflected to us.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
22655320125823|Sierra Foothill Charter|6|1. DISCIPLINE In 2018-19, there were zero suspensions, a drop from four suspensions the previous year.  There were 102 behavioral referrals to the office in 2018-19, a decrease of 13% from the previous year.    SURVEY DATA Grade 3-8 students took the spring 2019 survey. Results from the 70 respondents (99% of students in grades 3-8) is as follows: I feel safe at school. - 89% always/often I have friends at school. - 87% always/often I behave myself and try my best at school. - 96% always/often Staff members treat students fairly and with respect. - 87% always/often If I have a problem, there is one or more caring adults I can go to for help. - 79% always/often  Forty parents/guardians completed the annual survey in spring 2019, which represents over half of the families at our school. Results are as follows: I feel welcome at SFCS. - 98% agree/strongly agree I am adequately informed of my child's progress. - 93% agree/strongly agree I feel my child is safe at SFCS.  - 98% agree/strongly agree I feel my child is safe going to and from school. - 100% agree/strongly agree Students show respect at SFCS. - 92% agree/strongly agree SFCS meets the academic needs of students. - 100% agree/strongly agree SFCS meets the social/emotional needs of students. - 93% agree/strongly agree SFCS is an excellent learning environment. - 98% agree/strongly agree I have attended at least one meeting about my child's progress this year. - 100% yes  ATTENDANCE The SFCS Attendance Policy was adopted in January 2018, so this was the first full year of enforcement of this stricter policy. Use of parent/guardian notifications, independent study packets, and support for families led to an overall increase in attendance to 97%, 2% higher than last year.   2. Most teachers used Second Step Anti-bullying lessons along with units taught by community organizations - Mariposa Safe Families and Mariposa Alliance. Character education lessons were regularly integrated in classrooms and focused on the school-wide core virtue of the month. Social emotional learning resources shared with staff to supplement teaching and learning strategies. Common Sense Media lessons were used with all grades to teach digital citizenship and safe online practices.   School-wide incentives, routines, student leadership roles, and discipline practices were further implemented to reduce misbehavior and increase connectedness. Positive behavior contracts were developed and used with individual students as needed. A counselor was provided by the Mariposa County Human Resources Department. She served students in need weekly in social skills groups, as referred by teachers or parents. The counselor was also a valuable resource for staff members.  3. Training in trauma-informed instruction and positive behavior strategies will be provided to staff to further improve connections with students. Facilities upgrades using bond funding will support a safe, efficient, and more aesthetically pleasing campus.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
29102980114975|Sierra Montessori Academy|6|Sierra Montessori Academy did not have any California Healthy Kids Surveys completed by parents and there were not enough seventh grade students to generate a report either.  Sierra Montessori did receive completed staff surveys and the data was generated.  Many successes were apparent according to staff members.  For example, 67% of staff felt that Sierra Montessori is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn.  89% believed that every student can be a success as well.  Also, 63% indicated that Sierra Montessori is a safe place for staff and 67% indicated that it was a safe place for students.  One of our challenges, at 11%, was found in not providing enough career pathways opportunities.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
15737420000000|Sierra Sands Unified|6|1. DATA: The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered to 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade student in the fall of 2018. Results summary below: (5th Grade Percentage = Total % of “Yes. All/Most/Some of the time” responses. 7th-11th Grade Percentage = Total % of “Strongly Agree/Agree” responses. School Connectedness/Perceived Safety: 5th 7th 9th 11th 11th* Do you feel close to people at school? 87%, 57%, 57%, 57%, 3% Are you happy to be at this school? 93%, 53%, 49%, 42%, 47% Do you feel like you are part of this school? 89%, 41%, 46%, 43%, 40% Do teachers treat students fairly at school? 97%, 51%, 43%, 46%, 56% Do you feel safe at school? 94%, 49%, 56%, 51%, 50% How safe do you feel when you’re at school? N/A, 46%, 51%, 53%, 42%  Data represents total % of “Very Safe/Safe” Sample Sizes: 5th-56% (195/351) 7th-85% (304/357) 9th-86% (355/413) 11th-82% (285/346) 11th*-91% (30/33) *Mesquite H.S. 2. MEANING: School connectedness and perceived safety is comparatively higher in the 5th grade as compared to 7th, 9th, and 11th grades. 7th, 9th, and 11th grades school connectedness and perceived safety is an area of need for the district. 3. USE: The district has identified through survey results, needs-assessment, and stakeholder input, a focus on increased professional development in restorative practices, PBIS (Tier One), and classroom management. Professional development in these areas was provided to secondary staff in August 2018 and elementary staff in October 2019. Ongoing, sustained professional development and implementation of best practices remains an area of focus in 2019-20.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
10752750000000|Sierra Unified|6|Sierra Unified School District administered a self-developed survey to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11. Survey results will be presented to the community and school board in October 2019. Elementary participation continues to be high among 5th Grade students. Using a 4-point scale to measure school connectedness, the overall school rating was 3.2, showing a slight amount of growth over results in the same category in 2018. Results were based on items related to whether or not the respondent felt close to people at school, was happy to be at school, feeling like a part of the school, fair treatment by teachers, and feeling safe at school.  Eighty-one percent of students responded that they feel safe at school, indicating a significant growth over 2018 results (61% indicating the same). These results, in large part, indicate efforts and professional development of staff in positive discipline and the added support of behavior aides and counselors on campus each week. An analysis of surveys from our secondary campuses, Sierra Jr. High, Sierra High and Sandy Bluffs Alternative Education indicated that 57% of respondents felt connected to school indicated by strongly agree or agree rating. When asked how true is it that an adult/teacher cares about them as an individual and wants the best for them, 61% indicated that the statement was very true or pretty much true. Additional work is planned to provide additional opportunities for students to get involved on campus and find a spot where they feel connected and belonging in relation to school. When asked on the survey, how often in the last 30 days had they taken part in use of alcohol, tobacco or other controlled substances while on school property, 96.7% indicated that they had never or 1 day took part in such activity. School safety is always a priority in our district. Secondary students who responded to the question, "How safe do you feel when you are at school?", indicate that 55% of students feel safe to very safe while at school. Additionally, 34% of respondents felt neither safe nor unsafe while on campus. We continue to address concerns of bullying and harassment, and continue to make efforts toward reporting options that are as easy and annonymous as possible.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
54722490130708|Sierra Vista Charter High|6|Each spring Tulare Joint Union High School District administers a climate survey to its students. This student survey is administered to sophomores and seniors. The total number of the responses for the survey in the spring of 2019 was 2,078 students.  The survey includes specific questions geared at school safety and student connections to school. The survey includes questions from the California Healthy Kids Survey, however, we do not use the California Healthy Kids Survey every year, as it is a lengthy survey, resulting in students at times rushing through it. Through the survey, the majority of the students (60%) in our district indicated that they feel close to people at school, with only 13% of the students disagreeing or strongly disagreeing. Fifty-six percent of the students indicated that they were happy to be at school, while 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed. Nearly half of the students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel like they are part of the school (46%), while only 18% disagreed or strongly disagreed. Additionally, 54% of the students indicated that they feel safe at school, while only 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed. In addition to the positive response regarding school climate and safety, students also indicated that at their school, they have access to: challenging courses, such as Advanced Placement and honors (71%)and the necessary instructional materials (84%). Based on the survey results, the majority of our students feel safe and welcomed at our schools. Even though this is a definite strength, our district continues to explore way to engage all of our students, especially the 30% that still do not feel connected to our school. One of our challenges includes continuing to create a climate where all students feel welcomed and connected to our sites. This has resulted in our district continuing to develop our PBIS program and incentives. Based on the survey results, our district continues to make it a priority to provide training to our staff on improving connections to students. This includes providing all of our teachers with mental health training. Lack of time is another challenge for our district and has led us to be creative with our training and opportunities that we provide to our students and teachers.  We are also continuing to explore different ways to provide students with more opportunities at Sierra Vista Charter High School.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
46701770000000|Sierra-Plumas Joint Unified|6|School Climate is monitored as evidenced by:  - The California Healthy kids Survey is administered within the district on a bi-annual basis.   - The results of the survey are reported to the governing board.   - Additionally the county drug and alcohol prevention program conducts student surveys that reports school climate.   - The results of all surveys are analyzed for use in deciding future programs and guest speakers.  - The creation of "Peace ROARiors" a peer to peer conflict transformation group.|2019-05-14||Met|2019
09619860000000|Silver Fork Elementary|6|Due to the small size of the student population, it is not possible to survey the students and maintain anonymity. The District has a very welcoming and safe climate.  The staff and parents work very closely together to ensure that the students have the best learning environment possible.|2019-09-24||Met|2019
01611920127944|Silver Oak High Public Montessori Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
36738900000000|Silver Valley Unified|6|Every year we survey our elementary, middle and high school  students to find out how they feel about their school and we received the following results. In our elementary and middle schools 83% of the students said there was a teacher or adult at their school that cared about them, encourages them and lets them know when they do a good job. 84% felt there was a teacher or adult who believed they would be a success. 86% were happy at their current school and also, 81% of the students said they would recommend their  school to another student.  When it  came to school safety, 79% of the students felt safe at their current school.  Of our high school students, 56% felt there was a teacher or adult who told them they were doing a good job and 68% felt there was a teacher or adult who felt they would be a success. 71% of the students felt they were a part of the school (connectedness) and 73% felt safe.  53% of the student surveyed would recommend their school to other students. This past year also saw an increase in the number of suspensions and expulsions from the previous year to 104 suspension and 4 expulsions.  Some of the barriers we face are due to our remote location. Over 65% of our high school students have a 60+ minute, one way, bus ride to the high school from Ft. Irwin. Also, due to the small size of the high school we are not able to offer as many activities/programs that other, larger schools are able to offer. As a result of this data, the district has invested in new SEL curriculum for grades K-8 that is used daily in all those sites, including the Alternative Education Center. Also, the district invested in professional development with an outside provider to provide training, coaching and modeling with SEL strategies and supports for teachers and administrators. The district was also able to provide full time counselors at both high schools and at both sites that serve middle school students as extra supports and to work with small groups of students on social skills.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
56726030000000|Simi Valley Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) revealed a great deal about student perceptions and experiences in Simi Valley Unified School District (SVUSD). Specifically, School Climate topics were a focus of discussion given the data from the most recent CHKS survey. From that data, SVUSD learned that students taking the survey indicated they appear to be less connected to school as they get older and advance through our school system. The same holds true in terms of the data related to academic motivation. The older students become, the less motivated they are academically. Student perceptions related to student-teacher relationships were constant as students get older and continue in our school system. Those data points encouraged the LEA to pursue a social-emotional learning (SEL) initiative across the district. Areas of focus were academic and interpersonal. The interpersonal components focused directly on student-teacher relationships and school connectedness. From our partnership with an outside vendor that specializes in SEL, every school throughout the LEA is able to identify goals that are specific to the above topics. These surveys are administered at the beginning and end of every year to monitor progress and growth. Goals are identified and established based on responses from students on CHKS and SEL surveys.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
47104700000000|Siskiyou County Office of Education|6|The School Climate Survey was given to all students in the Fall of 2019.   • 100% of students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel safe at school.   • 87.5% agreed or strongly agreed that they school is usually clean and tidy. • 50% of students strongly agreed that they do interesting activities.  However, 50% neither agreed nor disagreed with that statement.  • 75% of students agreed that they do things that make a difference. • When asked about helping decide school activities, 25% agreed, 37.5% neither disagreed nor agreed, 37.5% disagreed. • 87.5% of students felt they have a teacher or another adult at school that really cares about them • 100% of students agree or strongly agree that someone tells them when they do a good job. • 62.5% strongly agree that there is a teacher or another adult that notices when they are not there. • 75% strongly agree that there is a teacher or some other adult who listens when they have a concern.  Based on survey results, it appears that students feel safe and supported.  However, they would like more input in deciding which activities are offered.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
47704660000000|Siskiyou Union High|6|We used the California Healthy Kids Survey to inform us about the school climate on each of our campuses by providing the survey to all students during the 2017-18 school year. The results of the survey have been used to develop specific goals and activities in our LCAP. Our LCAP Priority Goal 3 is to Improve the climate and culture of our campuses as indicated by Suspension Rates and the CA Healthy Kids Survey. Specific activities to improve climate and culture on our campuses include: Training and implementation of Restorative practices, training and implementation of emotional intelligence and trauma informed instructional practices, increase social emotional/counseling options, and increase nursing/health services.|2019-10-09|District Data from the 2017-18 CAHKS % of students indicating a safe or very safe level for perceived safety at school. CHKS Table A5.1 9th 56 (no change) 10th 54 (-6) 11th 55 (-4) 12th 52 (-18)  % of students who indicated Pretty much true or Very much true that there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me. CHKS Table A4.7 9th 55 (-3) 10th 53 (-12) 11th 61 (-15) 12th 68 (-1)  % of students who indicate Pretty much true or Very much true that they do interesting activities at school. CHKS Table A4.9  9th 56 (+1) 10th 50 (-3) 11th 54 (no change) 12th 48 (-9)  % of students who indicate Agree or Strongly Agree that their school is usually clean and tidy. CHKS Table A4.13  9th 53 (-7) 10th 67 (-5) 11th 47 (-25) 12th 52 (-22)  Other focus tables include: Absences, Past 30 days - Table A4.3 Reasons for Absences, Past 30 Days - Table 4.4 High expectations-adults in school - Table A4.8 School Connectedness Scale Questions - Table A4.10 Academic Motivation Scale Questions - Table A4.11 Reasons for Harassment on School Property - Table A5.2 Verbal Harassment at School - Table A5.3|Met|2019
12626870107110|Six Rivers Charter High|6|Our three stakeholder groups that were surveyed for school climate (Goal 2 of our LCAP) were students, families and staff.  The California Healthy Kids Survey administered in the Spring of 2019 to 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th grade students, for a total of 86 students surveyed.  72.75% of the students agreed or strongly agreed that they felt connected to the school.  70.25% of the students felt safe at school in 2019.  Families were surveyed via the 2019 Spring NHUHSD survey.  13, or 13.13%, of our families participated in the survey.  84.61% felt the school is safe and 100% felt the school is welcoming.  Staff was surveyed in the same 2019 Spring NHUHSD survey with questions specific to staff members.  8 staff participated, which is 72.72% of our staff.  Of the 8 who participated, 87.5% of the 8 who participated felt our school is safe.  87.5% reported they enjoyed coming to school each day.|2019-10-08|NA|Met|2019
49402460124339|Sixth Grade Charter Academy at Petaluma Jr. High|6||||Not Met|2019
49708540124339|Sixth Grade Charter Academy at Petaluma Jr. High|6|Petaluma City Schools has contracted with West Ed to administer the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other school year. The CHKS was last administered in the district during the 2017-2018 school year.  The CHKS will be administered again in the 2019-2020 school year.  For the 2017-2018 school year, the school climate measures, as indicated by the CHKS results were as follows: School Connectedness: 75% agree or strongly agree that they feel connected to the school.   Feel Safe At School: 80% agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
36679186101927|Sixth Street Prep|6|Students in grades 2-6 are surveyed annually. The results from the statement “I feel safe at my school” show that 89.61% of student respondents agree with the statement.  As a result, our superintendent continues to conduct student focus groups at each school twice a year to further understand student concerns and/or input about safety. Based on student, parent and staff input, Victor Elementary School District is continuing with its 3 year MTSS plan. Lead teams at each site meet weekly to review data and refine processes. VESD leadership meets with the school MTSS teams twice yearly to review and refine MTSS planning.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
36750510115089|Sky Mountain Charter|6|In the spring of 2019, all students in grades 5, 8, & 12 were asked to complete our School Climate survey. Our School Climate survey measures student satisfaction with their school, school connectedness, & school safety. It should be noted that we revamped our survey questions for 2019, with input from multiple stakeholders, so that the results would be more useful for our school. This resulted in rewording or combining of some prior questions.  Of our 5th, 8th, and 12th grade students, 25.1% responded to the survey. This is a 9.9% increase in participation from our prior survey and met our 25% participation goal. Overall, 43.9% of respondents were male, 48% were female, and 8.1% declined to state. As with our previous survey, the vast majority of students responded positively in all areas.  Survey highlights: These items represent several questions that saw an increase in positive responses.  - 94.6% of 5th graders, 94.59% of 8th graders felt rules/policies at school are fair most or all of the time, an increase of 5.6% and 11.59% respectively. 100% of 12th graders felt this way most of all of the time, which mirrored the previous survey results. - 100% of 5th, 8th, and 12th graders reported that they felt safe at school sponsored activities most or all of the time, an increase of 6% for 5th graders and 20% for 8th graders. This results mirrored the results from our last survey for 12th graders.  - 94.6% of 5th graders and 97.3% of 8th graders felt that their teachers encouraged them to do their best most or all of the time, an increase of 2.6% and 3.3% respectively.  Results of new/adjusted survey items: - (New) 81.08% of 5th graders, 75.68% of 8th graders, and 68.75% of 12th graders felt successful at school most or all of the time. - (New) 66.66% of 5th graders, 70.27% of 8th graders, and 68.75% of 12th graders felt there are opportunities to participate in school-sponsored activities most or all of the time. - (Adjusted) 89.19% of 5th graders, 88.89% of 8th graders, and 93.75% of 12th graders feel their school experience is a positive one most or all of the time.  Areas for deeper discussion: While the responses to the following questions were still positive overall, there was a noticeable decrease in the percent of students that responded favorably. - 62.17% of 5th graders and 83.79% of 8th graders felt they had a voice in decisions about their educational path most or all of the time, a decrease of 15.84% and 10.21% respectively. - For 12th graders there was a 12.5% decrease in feeling they were encouraged to do their best and that their teacher was interested in their college and career plans most or all of the time, moving from 100% to 87.5% for both indicators. However, it should be noted that this reflects negative responses from only 2 students each.|2019-10-31|In addition to the data in our narrative, our survey also asked respondents to rate how likely they would be to recommend our school to others. This is ranked on a scale of 1 (extremely likely) to 5 (extremely unlikely). For this survey, 78.9% responded favorably (extremely likely: 46.7% or somewhat likely: 32.2%) and 3.3% responded unfavorably (somewhat unlikely: 2.2% or extremely unlikely: 1.1%). Below is the breakdown by grade level.  5th: Favorable: 86.49% (59.46% extremely likely, 27.03% somewhat likely), Neutral: 10.81%, Unfavorably: 2.7% (2.7%  somewhat unlikely, 0% extremely unlikely)  8th: Favorable: 72.97% (40.54% extremely likely, 32.43% somewhat likely), Neutral: 24.32%, Unfavorably: 2.7% (2.7%  somewhat unlikely, 0% extremely unlikely)  12th: Favorable: 75% (31.25% extremely likely, 43.75% somewhat likely), Neutral: 18.75%, Unfavorably: 6.25% (0%  somewhat unlikely, 6.25% extremely unlikely)|Met|2019
44698074430179|SLVUSD Charter|6|In the fall of 2018, students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 SLV Charter took the Gallop Student Poll. This is a 24-question survey that measures the engagement, hope, entrepreneurial aspiration and career/financial literacy of students in grades five through 12. The Gallup Student Poll includes non-cognitive metrics with links to student success.   Results show the overall Grandmean on a scale of 1-5.   SLV Charter overall                2017      2018       US Overall 2018 Engagement                        4.41      3.91               3.85 Hope                                4.44       4.09               4.20 Entrepreneurial aspiration      2.63       2.29               2.42 Career/Financial literacy        3.71      3.41               3.28 Our scores went down in all areas when comparing 2018 scores to 2017.  We have increased our mental health counselor who goes into every classroom and facilitates skills in emotional awareness, communication, and building positive relationships with self and others. She also supports students through 1-1 and small group counseling.  We have also increased student voice in the classroom through more class meetings and choices within project, place or problem based learning as a way to help build student engagement and entrepreneurial aspiration.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
34765056033336|Smythe Academy of Arts and Sciences|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered annually to students in grades 7 – 12. A district developed survey was administered during the 2017-18 school year to students in grade 5. The surveys includes items in a variety of domains measuring school climate and safety.  - 53% of 5th graders had favorable responses to school culture and climate questions. - School Connectedness responses for agree or strongly agree at secondary sites was 59% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th, 42% for 10th and 11th grade, and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups. - School Safety responses for strongly agree at secondary sites was 60% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th grade, 42% for 10th and 11th grade and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups.  –The school connectedness and safety responses showed a small decline from the previous year administration of the CHKS at 7th and 11th grades but also showed gains of 6% at 9th grade. –Efforts to increase school connectedness for secondary sites includes the use of Activity Directors. These positions contribute to increased student engagement before, during, and after school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
24658390000000|Snelling-Merced Falls Union Elementary|6|The school climate results indicated the importance of school sports, continuing the music and arts programs, as well as the importance of the district's STEM program.  Parents and staff indicated the need to update our lockdown procedures and the school management have began the process with local law enforcement to train all staff in four planned phases.  This school year will conclude phase one and two, while the next school year will pertain to phase three and four.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
36739570000000|Snowline Joint Unified|6|Based on the 2019 Hanover Research Local Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP) Survey data, perceptions regarding student safety and connectedness offer a great deal of opportunity to improve. According to the social climate portion of the report, respondents believe that students have friends. 80 percent of all respondents believe that students have friends at school and another 81 percent believe that students from different cultural backgrounds can become friends. A little less than half of the respondents believe that students are treated fairly (parents –51%, staff –73%, students –44%) and a little more than half believe that students respect the teachers and staff (parents –70%, staff –64%, students –42%). Respondents across the three stakeholder groups report that bullying is a problem at their school. Specifically, while 80 percent of staff and 64 percent of parents believe that students feel safe at school, only 54 percent of students feel this way. Less than half of students (41%) believe that students get along with each other and respect their differences, while 61 percent of staff and 47 percent of parents feel the same way. Only 34 percent of parents, 25 percent of staff, and 30 percent of students believe that bullying is not a problem. Perceptions also vary significantly when it comes to the statement, "Students are comfortable talking to school staff," in which parents –56%, staff –82%, and students –51% responded in the affirmative. The aforementioned data validates one of our primary focus areas for the 2019-20 school year and beyond, which is to enhance the climate within all district schools and departments. There are a number of efforts that are currently happening to promote the latter. The Superintendent along with other leaders meet with student focus groups throughout the year in efforts to solicit their feedback and recommendations regarding their school experiences. Over 2,000 students participated in these types of settings during the 2018-19 school year. This all supports LCAP Goal 2: A prosocial learning environment that meets students’ needs - social, emotional, and academic - will exist on every school site and in every classroom.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
36678760117192|SOAR Charter Academy|6|DATA: California Healthy Kids Survey and Local Stakeholder Survey 2018/19 results show 71% of 5th graders feel safe and 64% of 7th graders feel safe. 98%parents agree we have a safe place to learn and 100% of staff agree SOAR is a safe place to work. 97% of parents agree we provide a supportive learning environment. 96% of 5th graders feel connected at school and 90% of 7th graders feel connected at school. 88% of parents and 98% of staff agree we have clean and well-maintained facilities. 85% of parents agree SOAR meets the academic and emotional needs of their students. 95% believe SOAR teaches character education and leadership that impacts children. 86% believe SOAR is kept neat and orderly. 97% agree we motivate students to learn.  MEANING: According to these survey results, our parents, students and staff are happy overall with our school climate and culture. Our culture is a strength of ours. The areas of focus over the last couple of years have been campus cleanliness and safety. We a have been trying to get more parents to attend meetings to get feedback from them about all areas and programs.  USE: We look at the survey data each year to see what we need to address. This information helps guide our actions in our LCAP and other school planning. To address campus cleanliness, our school has implemented a House system and we do all school clean up every other Monday. We also have a point system in which students and staff earn House points for showing leadership on our campus. We became a Leader in Me school in 2016 and we were recognized as a Leader in Me Lighthouse School in June 2019. The Leader in Me program has given our whole school a framework for our character education and leadership focus. We have seen a change in our students over the last 3 years and our school climate seems to be impacted in a positive way. We will continue working on instilling the 7 habits in our students K-8 and building leadership in all students and staff. The impact has also been seen in our staff. They are stepping up more than ever to support our students and school. Their leadership is evident on our campus in all areas. For the 2019/20 school year, we will continue to focus our efforts on safety, cleanliness, and continuing to enhance our exterior with more Leader in Me signs, murals, etc. We also have a goal of reducing our referrals from last year by 10% each month.|2019-10-16|School climate is and will continue to be a part of our well-rounded education focus.|Met|2019
34674390101295|Sol Aureus College Preparatory|6|The data that is presented on school climate can be misleading.  Due to the fact that we are a small school 1 or 2 suspensions will appear high if presented as a percentage.  As for the standings in mathematics we have developed a Professional Development plan to train teachers and para-educators in the deficient areas.  Identify struggling students and offer additional services when needed.  We have seen a growth in benchmark assessment scores the implementation of parent education nights, and family math nights.  We will continue to use data to develop our curriculum and provide Educators with best teaching practices.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
37683870000000|Solana Beach Elementary|6|Surveys are an important part of our data analysis and reflection process. Fifth grade students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey in the fall of 2017.  An analysis of the survey results around school climate and student well-being indicated the following: School Engagement and Supports - Eighty-four percent of students feel connected to their schools and have caring adult relationships. School Safety - Eighty-nine percent of students feel safe at school. Disciplinary Environment - Ninety-one percent of students reported being treated with respect. Lifetime Substance Use - One-percent of students reported ever using an e-cigarette. Although, twenty-two percent of students indicate they have used alcohol, twenty-one percent indicate the use consists of one or two sips.  Overall, the indicators around the California Healthy Kids survey show a positive school climate for students.  Fifth and Sixth grade students will once again participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey during the Fall of 2019 and the data will be analyzed to develop actions to continue to support positive student outcomes. Areas Solana Beach will continue to focus on is the social-emotional well-being of students, student-connectedness, and overall student wellness.  Additional climate survey results (student, parents, and staff) administered in the 2018-19 school year reinforce students feel safe at school, and schools are: safe and clean (4.5 out of 5 stars), and overall student wellness -- nutrition, social/emotional, physical (4.2 out of 5 stars) is high.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
48104880000000|Solano County Office of Education|6|Students completed the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2017-18. Students also responded to a locally developed survey to address their perceptions about school. Following are representative questions for these surveys: • 59% of students responded, “Pretty much true” or “Very much true” to the statement: “At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who listens to me when I have something to say.” • 63% of students responded, “Pretty much true” or “Very much true” to the statement: “At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who believes that I will be a success.” • 54% of students responded that they feel “Safe” or “Very safe” to the question: “How safe do you feel when you are at school?” • When asked on the CHKS “During the past 12 months, how many times on school property were you harassed or bullied?”, 76% of the students reported 0 times and 24% reported 1 or more times • When asked on the CHKS  “During the past 12 months, how many times on school property have you been pushed, shoved, slapped, hit, or kicked by someone who wasn’t just kidding around?”, 74% of the students reported 0 times and 26% reported 1 or more times. • 37% of all our students reported on our local survey that the school provides them with extra help when they struggle socially and emotionally. Overall survey results indicate that nearly 50% or more of the students reported experiencing a positive relationship with a staff member and reported feeling safe when they are at school. Over 70% of the students reported that they did not experience physical aggression, harassment, or bullying at school. On the other hand, less than 40% of the students reported feeling involved in decision making relative to their activities and one-third of the students reported that the school supports them socially and emotionally. Results show that efforts to provide students with a welcoming and safe environment have positively affected the experience of the majority of our students and that work in this area needs to continue to positively affect the experience of all our students.  We are paying particular attention to increasing our training for administrators and staff on how to support the students social and emotional well-being by engaging in trauma-informed practices. As part of this effort, we will assess each students’ need for social and emotional support by using a screening tool at the beginning of the 2019-20 school year. Results from the screening will inform our tier system of services ranging from emotional learning groups, to individual problem-centered counseling provided by school-based support staff, to mental health counseling under clinical supervision. For students housed at the JDF, who receive mental health services from an agency under contract with Solano County Probation, we will use the results of the screening tool to collaborate with Probation in identifying student needs and plan for appropriate services.|2019-11-13|The implementation of the Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) model will continue to be a priority to provide students with supportive and well- structured classroom environments and offer ample opportunities to be recognized for their attendance, effort, work, and positive behavior. Intensive training on restorative practices will continue to support our efforts to replace exclusionary discipline and develop culturally sensitive strategies for student reflection and the use of constructive approaches to conflict resolution.   In an effort to increase student engagement and participation in decision making, teachers will receive additional training on facilitating discussions and collective problem solving applied to student activities. Student support specialists will continue to involve students in developing their Individual Learning Plans (ILPs) and build their capacity in understanding requirements for their return to their school of residence, graduation requirements, credit recovery opportunities, and decisions related to college and career paths.  A wellness center, established in collaboration with Solano County Behavioral Health, is now available for our students at Golden Hills Community School (GHCS) to support reflection, self-regulation, and emotional awareness under the guidance of teaching and support staff.  An additional wellness center will be established at the JDF in collaboration with Probation in December 2019.|Met|2019
27754400000000|Soledad Unified|6|Students The District conducted Climate Surveys of students, staff, and parents in Spring 2019. The students' result indicates that secondary students agree that they respected by teachers, that rules are clear and that there is an adult they feel comfortable talking with.  Students indicate that there is less agreement that there is recognition for good behavior and that they like school.  The average for all ratings indicates overall agreement with all elements which is a positive finding. The elementary school climate results indicate student agreement that their school wants them to do well, there are rules for behavior and teachers respect students. There was less agreement with elements including students treat each other well, students behave well in classrooms and that they do well in school.  The average for all ratings indicates overall agreement with all elements which is a positive finding. The combined results indicate that work should be done on elements including teacher belief that students can do well in school, peer relationships and classroom management as well as recognition for positive behavior. The 2019 LCAP added provisions for elementary anti-bullying and mental health services.  The District is exploring bringing the Renaissance student recognition program to the District. Parents The District completes a Comprehensive Stakeholder Engagement process annually to collect parent input on the LCAP.  In the Spring of 2019, 7 meetings were held with over 300 total participants.  Input collected included LCAP Goal 4 - Family Engagement.  Among the items of the parent, interest was improved messaging/use of social media, more anti-bullying programs, alternatives for student suspension and EL classes for parents.  The 2019-2020 LCAP strived\s to address some of these interests and others are being explored.  Many items supporting parent engagement are already in place including childcare at most parent meetings, translation at virtually all parent meetings.|2019-10-09|The District has a comprehensive PBIS program with student incentives for positive behavior.  PBIS also provides lessons for classroom teachers. With the addition of  Harmony at Home Community Counseling and Sticks and Stones Anti-bullying programs along with more Monterey County Mental Health Services school sites have more resources to support students facing trauma and other issues.  This is leading to the establishment of Coordination of Services Teams (COST) to ensure efficient delivery of Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 services.|Met|2019
19101990137166|Soleil Academy Charter|6|After administering a survey, we found that students feel connected to our school community. From the feedback gathered, the key places that led to scholars feeling less safe are the playground, given it is a shared space. The strengths we found were scholars feel safe in classrooms, during lunch time, and at arrival and dismissal. To address the feedback regarding recess, we have implemented more supervision on the playground to ensure safety.|2019-10-03|Our scholars are in grades K-2. We sought out feedback using kid-friendly forms and a few verbal questions to gather information regarding school climate.|Met|2019
42693360000000|Solvang Elementary|6|The Solvang School District currently uses the state’s Healthy Kids Survey (HKS) to assess the California School Dashboard’s two required areas concerning School Climate: Safety and Connectedness. Per state guidelines, the HKS is administered every other year to 5th and 7th graders.  5th GRADE  PERCEIVED SAFETY At or Outside of School Responses: 36 of 74 students  Do you feel safe at school? Yes, all of the time: 49% Yes, most of the time: 34% Yes some of the time: 17%  Do you feel safe on your way to and from school? Yes, all of the time: 53% Yes, most of the time: 36% Yes, some of the time: 8% (3 students) No, never: 3% (1)  School Safety by Gender: Feels safe at school most/all of the time: 87% (female), 73% (male)  SCHOOL CONNECTEDNESS Responses: 36 of 74 students  I feel close to people at school. Yes, all of the time: 31% Yes, most of the time: 36% Yes, some of the time: 28% No, never: 6%  I am happy to be at this school. Yes, all of the time: 56% Yes, most of the time: 22% Yes, some of the time: 19% No, never: 3%  I feel like I am a part of this school. Yes, all of the time: 42% Yes, most of the time: 42% Yes, some of the time: 14% No, never: 3%  Connectedness by Gender 78% (female), 50% (male)  7th GRADE  PERCEIVED SAFETY at School  How safe do you feel when you are at school? Very Safe: 26% Safe: 52% Neither safe nor unsafe: 20% Unsafe: 3% (2 students)  Perceived Safety by Race/Ethnicity 81% Hispanic or Latino, 76% White, 82% Mixed (two or more) races  School Safety by Gender Feels safe or very safe at school: 74% Female, 81% Male  SCHOOL CONNECTEDNESS  I feel close to people at this school. Strongly Agree: 34% Agree: 45% Neither disagree nor agree: 18% Strongly disagree: 3% (2 students)  I am happy to be at this school. Strongly Agree: 38% Agree: 41% Neither disagree nor agree: 14% Disagree: 3% Strongly disagree: 5%  I feel like I am part of this school. Strongly Agree: 38% Agree: 36% Neither disagree nor agree: 15% Disagree: 11% (7 students)  School Connectedness by Race/Ethnicity 81% Hispanic or Latino, 76% White, 71% Mixed (two or more) races  School Connectedness by Gender 65% Female, 84% Male|2019-11-13||Met|2019
56726110000000|Somis Union|6|Somis Elementary School Students in grades 5 and 7 participated in the California Healthy Kids survey in the spring of 2018 and will participate again this spring.  Last year we conducted a "Kindness Survey" in grades 6, 7, and 8.  We asked kids to self-report with questions like "I am kind to others? "I have been unkind to the following people. . . " " When my peers are treated unkindly by others they probably feel . . . "  "When I have been treated unkindly I feel . . . . "  I have noticed that the following people have improved their behavior toward others.  . . ."  "I think the following people can be trusted to treat me and others with respect. . “ This kind of survey would probably not be as effective in a large setting but with less than 70 students in these grades and most of them having gone to school together since kindergarten, there is a level of trust and honesty.  There weren't any great surprises in their responses as far as who can be trusted and how they viewed themselves, except they were usually much tougher on themselves than the teacher and staff assessment of their behavior. We have noticed that when we give this survey, the students start to become more aware of their own actions and actually behave more kindly to each other.        There are other indicators of positive school climate and that is attendance and discipline. We have not expelled a student in over 9 years and have not had a fight in the 9 years that I have served as principal. Attendance is strong but again, with a small population, a few outliers can affect the statistical data.  One change we have made after looking at attendance data is to be more proactive. This year we are meeting at the first of the year with the families that have a past history of poor attendance.  Most of them are surprised to see the total number of days that their child missed in the past year and it helps to start good habits for the new year.   Another area that we continue to address is that our middle schoolers worry about school shooters.  Though we have never had a violent incident at school, the students fear that they could be hurt by a stranger. Does social media play a role? Perhaps. We maintain safety locks on the doors and stay current with our Staff Development training for crisis management but more importantly the adults know that each child must feel cared for and valued.  Having a trusting relationship with an adult is critical at this age.  We started a "Kid Care" program where each adult on campus is "paired" with an at risk student.  It is the adult’s responsibility to make contact with that student at least several times a week, preferably, daily.  It can be something as quick as, "How was your soccer game this weekend?" "How did you do on that math test last Tuesday?" "Do you need some help with that?" We make it our mission to step in before isolation and loneliness can take hold.   When you are a small school, no child is invisible.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
49709536111678|Sonoma Charter|6|Data Tools -- Sonoma Charter School surveyed students, staff, and parents during spring 2019.  Parents -- An online survey in English and Spanish was administered with a 30% response rate. Responses to the survey confirmed the past trend of parent satisfaction with the school and the education their children were receiving.  Staff -- Certificated and Classified staff participated in a survey (80% response) that measured similar questions to the parent survey with the additional focus on professional development learning. Staff survey also continued a positive trend in all areas.  Students -- In the past the school had used the California Healthy Kids Survey. In May 2019, student in grades 5-8 took the “My Voice” Student Aspirational Survey. The new survey assesses student aspirations by asking students questions based on each of the 8 Conditions.  1) Belonging 2) Heroes 3) Sense of Accomplishment 4) Fun & Excitement 5) Curiosity & Creativity 6) Spirit of Adventure 7) Leadership & Responsibility 8) Confidence to Take Action  By asking students how they perceive their school environment, My Voice provides insight into understanding both what motivates and inspires students to achieve, and how well students believe their school is meeting those objectives.  The purpose of this survey is to provide a context for exploring how students view the teaching and learning they experience in their school and how those views align with the school’s mission and vision. By exploring and discussing these results, schools will gain valuable insights into the relationship between student aspirations and school culture. Those insights can lead to promising action plans aimed at fostering teaching and learning environments in which all students are inspired, and able, to reach their goals.  Use -- The school is intending using all the above data during the 2019-20 school year to create advisory groups to further explore and drive survey tool design for spring 2020.|2019-06-17||Met|2019
49104960000000|Sonoma County Office of Education|6|In the 2018-19 school year 51% of students reported having high levels of school connectedness, as reported on the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS); 74% of students reported having high levels of caring relationships with adults in school; 80% of students reported having high levels of high expectations from adults at school and 33% of students reported having high levels of meaningful participation in school. There continues to be a need to monitor the impact of CBO services on student outcomes Overall, services have had a positive impact, particularly as it relates to school-community building. Additionally, the services the community-based organizations provide assist students in meeting requirements for readmission to district. Healthy relationships between adults and students is promoted via school/community building events. Teacher professional development has helped to strengthen healthy relationships between adults and students. Once again, the parent engagement event at Amarosa Academy was very successful. Academic counseling services are provided to all students in the program. The counselor assists students with the development of academic and graduation plans and assists with addressing barriers to positive school outcomes. Student relationships are strong and this service provides much needed support and guidance to students. Culturally appropriate structure and support that include provision of bilingual services was provided (with the exception of a bilingual counselor) . Expansion of agency contracts to include work with parents/families has been discussed but not yet implemented. Current counseling services are having a positive impact on student engagement and performance. Mental health counseling services were provided in the 2018-19 school year. Staffing was more consistent this year and counselors established and maintained positive relationships with students. Counseling services assist students with addressing barriers to school success and provide support in dealing with personal issues that might impact their ability to be fully 'present' at school.|2019-11-07||Met|2019
49708476114755|Sonoma Mountain Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
49709530000000|Sonoma Valley Unified|6|SVUSD administered the YouthTruth Survey to students in March through May 2019.  Student reports in overall sense of feeling "safe from harm while at school" were aggregated and will serve as a baseline for future administrations to measure growth over time. 61% of high school students agreed or strongly agreed they safe and free from harm at school.  51% of middle school students agreed or strongly agreed they feel safe and free from harm at school. 65% of elementary school students reported they felt "very safe" at school.   The data will be disaggregated further and considered in conjunction with our LCAP goals and metrics over the course of the year.|2019-11-05||Met|2019
55723710000000|Sonora Elementary|6|Sonora Elementary has met Priority 6.  Sonora Elementary School surveys the parents and students each year, which is shared with the staff and Board of Trustees.  The data is used to write and revise the LCAP.  Each year all 5th and 7th grade students and parents asked to complete the Healthy Kids Survey.  The survey results are shared with the board and Site Council and a summary is posted on the district website.   The results of the Healthy Kids Survey indicate a need to address the increased use of electronic cigarettes (VAPE).  The district is researching various curriculum and programs as well as other intervention programs.  The results of the survey also indicated a need for bullying prevention, which motivated the district to join the other school districts in Tuolumne County implementing the Sandyhook Promise Project.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
55723890000000|Sonora Union High|6|Survey administered to 9th and 11th graders in 2018-19 59% of 9th graders, 54% of 11th graders and 77% of non-traditional students feel safe or very safe at school.  34% of 9th graders, 38% of 11th graders and 19% of non-traditional students feel neither safe nor unsafe. 100% of students report never having seen a gun on campus 29% of 9th graders, 42% of 11th graders and 62% of non-traditional students report current drug or alcohol use 23% of 9th graders, 32% of 11th graders and 57% of non-traditional students report vaping 4 or more times continue educating on dangers of vaping and supplemental counseling services.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
44698490000000|Soquel Union Elementary|6|In the fall of 2018, students in grades 5 and 7 in Soquel Union Elementary School District took the California Healthy Kids Survey. This survey measures student engagement and supports, school safety and substance abuse, mental and physical health.   Through the Soquel Union Elementary School District’s California Healthy Kid “Key Indicator Reports” for both the elementary and middle school levels, students’ positive or affirming responds by percentage are as follows:  School Engagement and Supports- School Connectedness: Elementary: 80% Middle School: 60%  School Engagement and Supports- Academic Motivation: Elementary: 88% Middle School: 68%  School Engagement and Supports- Caring Adults in School: Elementary: 81% Middle School: 65%  School Engagement and Supports- High Expectations of Adults: Elementary: 91% Middle School: 78% School Engagement and Supports- Parent Involvement in Schooling: Elementary: 83% Middle School: 52%  School Safety - Feel Safe at School: Elementary: 90% Middle School: 59%  School Disciplinary Environment - Students Treated with Respect Elementary: 89% Middle School: N/A  While we were pleased overall with our student results, there were some areas of concern and focus in the middle school more notably. The middle school and district leadership are continuing to address this concern by focusing on staff-wide and school-wide Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) training and practices, as well as systematic approaches to student governance, positive behavior supports, fostering feelings of safety and connectedness.   With a continued focus on building strong adult-student relationships district-wide, social, emotional and academic development (SEAD) supports built into school and district professional learning will also continue to be an overarching  strategic focus for Soquel Union Elementary District, considering this question “How do we talk about the skills and competencies that help our young people learn and grow in a way that’s intuitive, caring, asset-oriented and actionable?” With the aid and facilitation from our SEAD TOSA and SEAD expert trainer, staff at all schools have embarked on this learning journey, as evidenced by community building rituals and routines, RULER implementation, personal and classroom Mood-meters, partner-talk and partner-work, mindful practices, academic conversations, and more.  To assess this work’s effect, we will work to develop tools to more frequently measure students’ feelings about their learning climates. These tools may be formalized structures, like local surveys, but may also include anecdotal information from staff and students on a regular basis through organic conversations and classroom experiences.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
55723970000000|Soulsbyville Elementary|6|According to survey results, students feel safe and are happy at this school; 81% of primary students feel safe and 58% of middle school students report feeling safe.  Though both the school climate report and the Healthy Kids Survey reveal a positive environment, areas for improvement are 1) a sense of being treated fairly by staff, 2) students and parents having more involvement and input on school decisions.  Through PBIS implementation, staff will learn ways to be consistent and fair with discipline and positive recognition.  For more input from parents and students, the school will expand the methods for communicating what decisions are available by encouraging attendance at Site Council meetings, PTO meetings, and Board meetings.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
12630320124289|South Bay Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
37683950000000|South Bay Union|6|SBUSD admisters a local school climate and LCAP survey to all students in grades 3-8.  In addition, a parent version of the survey is also administered.  Lastly, a school culture survey is administered to all district staff.  In 2018-2019, 941 parent responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed.  2,952 student responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed. 290 staff responses were collected, disaggregated and analyzed.   LCAP Culture Surveys indicate an average score as following on each survey: Students: 3.240 average, representing a slight decrease from 3.3 since 2016.  No significant differences exist for student groups. Parents: 3.53 average, with increases on every question since 2016. Overall data increased from 3.45 to 3.53, on a four point scale. Spanish speaking families indicate a greater level of satisfaction than English speaking families.  Staff: 3.667 average, relatively flat since 2016.   Key learnings from the survey results include the following generalizations: LCAP survey data indicates, greater overall satisfaction on the part of parents,  with the greatest growth in the area of promoting academic success for all students and school safety.  Progress was also made on appealing and nutritious meals, yet this remains an area of improvement. LCAP student survey data average is relatively flat over a one year period.  However, significant progress has been made in the area of  students being made fun of, teased, or bullied.  This area has seen significant improvement each year over a three year period.  Students alsop report their classrooms and campuses to be cleaner than in the past.  LCAP staff survey data indicates strengths in the areas of collegial support, professional development and unity of purpose.  Areas of improvement include collaboration and learning partnerships with students and families.      Disaggregated results of the survey and other data collection methods reveal differences among school sites as compared to the district average.  On the parent survey, four schools are performing below the district average. On the student survey, four schools are performing below the district average.  Two of these schools are also the ones below the district average on the parent and staff survey.   This indicates a need among students, staff and families.  These schools will  need to focus on comprehensive culture improvement.    Through the culture surveys and LCAP input process, a need for building collective efficacy and teacher leadership was identified as a means of improving school culture.  Professional development and systems change is in process.  These have become significant district goals for the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-10-10|Through all input processes and participation in Differentiated Assistance with our County Office of Education, a need to build belief in students' ability to achieve has been identified.  This includes building collective efficacy among all members of the SBUSD community.  Actions during the 2019-2020 school year include professional development, school culture efforts at individual sites, community involvement and celebrations of success.|Met|2019
12630320000000|South Bay Union Elementary|6|DATA:   The CA Healthy Kids Survey revealed that our students - both primary and secondary - feel that our teachers/staff care about them and have high expectations of them.  When surveyed about Mental Health, greater than 30% of 4th, 6th, 7th, and 8th grade students reported experiencing prolonged periods of sadness.  Also concerning is that 50% of 7th and 8th grade students reported riding in a vehicle with someone they knew was under the influence of alcohol.    MEANING:  Without hesitation, our stakeholders agree that our teachers and staff members care about our students.  With that said, in order to produce ongoing scholastic achievement, our teachers and staff members will need additional support and training to effectively manage many of the challenging behaviors that students bring to school.  Additionally, stakeholders agree that only 36% of students citing they experience meaningful participation in class is far too low.  USE:  Currently to address mental health and wellness concerns, every other year, certificated employees will rotate participation  in Love & Logic Classroom Management strategies with Piagetian Programs focusing on stages of childhood development.  Also, the district will ensure that an increase reliable in mental health service providers are secured for students.  Finally, to bolster students perceptions of meaningful engagement, project-based learning will be emphasized across the grade-spans.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
15637840000000|South Fork Union|6|The South Fork Union School District Participates in the California Healthy Kids Survey annually, measuring student, staff and parent input. Combined data have shown an increase in the area of school safety over the past three years. Current school safety results-Total Average: 83%, Parents feel that School is Safe for students:98%, Students feel safe at school: 62%, Staff feel that school is a safe place for students:88%. The district will continue to utilize Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports, School Psychology Intern, teacher and paraprofessional professional development to improve the districts school climate. Suspension Rates: 1.8% (prior year-5.7%) Chronic Absenteeism: 14.3% (prior year 17.5%)|2019-10-10||Met|2019
27660680000000|South Monterey County Joint Union High|6|SMCJUHSD administered the following surveys and collected data in the following areas: PBIS Tiered Fidelity Inventory (TFI) Climate Survey ACES Survey Aeries Discipline Data  Sites where the survey was administered/data collected: Greenfield High School King City High School Portola Butler Continuation High School  Themes from surveys and data: Overall Culture • People of different cultural backgrounds interact well • Staff actively works to create a safe environment Engagement • Students are engaged in class discussions • Students have access to academic assistance when needed Growth Areas • Suspension Rates especially for Hispanic/Latino and Students with Disabilities  • Discipline Rates especially for Hispanic/Latino and Students with Disabilities The district is seeing progress in this priority and it will continue to work with our county office of education on improving the conditions for all students through a continuous improvement model.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19650290000000|South Pasadena Unified|6|California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered in the Winter and Spring of 2018 to students in grades 5, 7, 9 and 11. Although as part of SPUSD's mission for continuous improvement areas of growth are listed, it is important to note the SPUSD CHKS results are better than or equal to LA County averages.  Grade 5 School Climate and Student Well-Being indicates that the majority of 5th graders: are proud to belong to their school, feel students are well behaved and are treated fairly and respectfully, feel safe at school and know bullying is not allowed. 5th grade areas of growth include: school connectedness, academic motivation, caring adult relationships and high teacher expectations.  Grade 7 School Climate and Student Well-Being indicates the majority of 7th graders: feel safe at school, have never had mean rumors or lies spread about them, feel connected to school, have never experienced chronic sadness, and are always trying to do better at school. 7th Grade areas of growth include: high teacher expectations, caring adult relationships and meaningful participation.  Grades 9 & 11 School Climate and Student Well-Being indicates the majority of 9th and 11th graders: feel close to people at school, are happy to be at school, have a high level of academic motivation have never had mean rumors or lies spread about them and have not had current alcohol or drug use. 9th and 11th Grades areas of growth include: school connectedness, teacher expectations, caring adult relationships, chronic sadness, and the consideration of suicide among 11th graders.  Specific CHKS student group reporting results were presented at a board meeting with a trend analysis report. SPUSD's focus is to ensure students feel safe and connected at school. Based on specific areas of growth, school sites are revisiting and revising existing programs and practices to make site specific improvements, including a focus on Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), crisis intervention services, alternatives to suspension, digital citizenship, and Character Education and/or Mindfulness.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
41690700000000|South San Francisco Unified|6|SSFUSD administers the California Healthly kids survey every other year and admisters a Panorama survey to students, staff and parents annually. Here's some of key data points from the CHKS survey in 2017-18: Elementary Students (Grade 5) 98%  believe their teachers care about them  80% like to come to school 97% feel they can talk to other adults  96% say other students are kind to them Secondary Students 91% say school is a positive environment  86% feel their teachers care about them 62% stated they have an adult at school they can talk to  92% stated they have a friend/peer they can talk to 90% feel the school is a safe and caring community As of a result of analyzing survey results and CA dashboard results, SSFUSD has implemented the following: Alternative to Suspension program - Piloted a ATS program where students that have been suspended for violating a Ed code have the opportunity to go to the ATS program. Upon successful completion of the ATS program where SSFUSD provides time for the students to self - reflection students can have the suspension either reduced in terms on numbers of out of school days. We have hired a trained therapist from Beacon to conducted restorative practices. Another area of need was for SSFUSD to provided increased mental health support. This come via Panorama survey and input from our parents, staff and students. So in 2019-2020, SSFUSD added additional counseling support at all 9 of our elementary schools since we do not provide counselors at the elementary level. SSFUSD is considering implementing a Community in Schools model at a couple of high needs sites for the 2020-2021 school year.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
51714070109793|South Sutter Charter|6|In the spring of 2019, all students in grades 5, 8, & 12 were asked to complete our School Climate survey. Our School Climate survey measures student satisfaction with their school, school connectedness, & school safety. It should be noted that we revamped our survey questions for 2019, with input from multiple stakeholders, so that the results would be more useful for our school. This resulted in rewording or combining of some prior questions.   Of our 5th, 8th, and 12th grade students, 15.04% responded to the survey. This is a 9.62% increase in participation from our prior survey but still short of our 25% participation goal. Overall, 38% of respondents were male, 50.7% were female, and 11.3% declined to state. As with our previous survey, the vast majority of students responded positively in all areas.  Survey highlights: These items represent questions that saw a noticeable increase in positive responses.  - 100% of 8th graders felt that their teachers encouraged them to do their best most or all of the time, an increase of 7%. 100% of 12th graders also felt this way, which mirrored results of our last survey. - 89.19% of 8th graders and 100% of 12th graders felt their teacher cared about their post-high school college and career plans most or all of the time, an increase of 9.19% and 8% respectively. - 81.08% of 8th graders and 100% of 12th graders felt they had a voice in decisions about their educational path most or all of the time, an increase of 10.08% and 8% respectively.  Results of new/adjusted survey items: - (New) 90.48% of 5th graders, 83.79% of 8th graders, and 100% of 12th graders felt successful at school most or all of the time. - (New) 66.67% of 5th graders, 66.67% of 8th graders, and 83.34% of 12th graders felt there are opportunities to participate in school-sponsored activities most or all of the time. - (Adjusted) 76.19% of 5th graders, 83.79% of 8th graders, and 100% of 12th graders feel their school experience is a positive one most or all of the time.  Areas for deeper discussion: While the responses to the following questions were still positive overall, there was a noticeable decrease in the percent of students that responded favorably. - There was an 8.29% decrease in the percent of 5th graders who felt their teacher encouraged them to do their best. (94% to 85.71%) - There was a 9.1% decrease in the percent of 5th grade who felt they participated in deciding what they learned about. (71% to 61.9%)|2019-10-16|In addition to the data in our narrative, our survey also asked respondents to rate how likely they would be to recommend our school to others. This is ranked on a scale of 1 (extremely likely) to 5 (extremely unlikely). For this survey, 82.54% responded favorably (extremely likely: 58.73% or somewhat likely: 23.81%) and 7.93% responded unfavorably (somewhat unlikely: 4.76% or extremely unlikely: 3.17%). Below is the breakdown by grade level. 5th: Favorable: 70% (50% extremely likely, 20% somewhat likely), Neutral: 15%, Unfavorably: 15% (10%  somewhat unlikely, 5% extremely unlikely) 8th: Favorable: 86.49% (56.76% extremely likely, 29.73% somewhat likely), Neutral: 8.11%, Unfavorably: 5.4% (2.7%  somewhat unlikely, 2.7% extremely unlikely) 12th: Favorable: 100% (100% extremely likely, 0% somewhat likely), Neutral: 0%, Unfavorably: 0%|Met|2019
19650370000000|South Whittier Elementary|6|SWSD administered the California Healthy Kids survey to all students in grades 5 and 7 to determine students’ perceptions related to school safety and student connectedness. District administrators met with K-8 leadership students at each of the school sites to discuss their perceptions of their schools related to connectedness and safety.  This also included information on what they would like to see improved.  These “Talking Tours” that were conducted in the Spring of 2019 allowed 10-30 students from each school the opportunity to give voice into the LCAP.  The qualitative data that was provided was analyzed.   South Whittier School District has surveyed students in a variety of topics such as school safety, respect, and school connectedness through a written survey and through focus group interviews.  SWSD will continue to survey students in the areas of school safety and connectedness.  SWSD has used both district created surveys and the California Healthy Kids survey. Survey results indicate that 57% of our students indicate that they feel safe at school most of the time and 59% of our students feel connected to their school.  In the focus groups, students indicated that the feeling of safety could be improved with gates being locked at the school site and classroom doors locked during instruction. Based on this feedback, the district has one point of entry at each school site and has implemented a “buzz-in” system at each of the schools and all of the gates have alarms. Many students shared that they are confident in the staff to protect them and keep them safe.  In the survey, 45% of the students indicated that the facilities are clean and maintained most of the time.  In the focus group interviews, the students shared that school facilities could be improved by everyone pitching in to keep the bathrooms clean throughout the school day and during the after school programs.  A district-wide recycling program has been implemented at all sites. Uniform recycle containers have been distributed to all classrooms and offices. The recycle program includes plastics, cans, papers and cardboard.  Similarly in the focus groups, students shared that they would like more playground equipment.  The district is in the process of using bond money as well as applying for grant funds to support this need at the school sites.  The district also believes that increasing opportunities to engage students on the playground will decrease the number of students that indicated that they have felt bullied in the past.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
12630400000000|Southern Humboldt Joint Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
15637760000000|Southern Kern Unified|6|During the 2018-2019 school year, Southern Kern USD administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to students in grades 7, 9 and 11. The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is developed by WestEd, a research, development, and service agency, in collaboration with Duerr Evaluation Resources, under contract from the California Department of Education Coordinated School Health and Safety Office. The assessment has been deemed to be a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The sample size was: 7th grade 230 respondents; 9th grade 119 respondents; 11th grade 94 respondents.   Perceived Safety at School. Feel safe or very safe at school. Grade 7: 42% Grade 9: 50% Grade 11: 40%   Feeling Safe or Very Safe at School by Race/Ethnicity Hispanic: Grade 7: 46% Grade 9: 50% Grade 11: 45% African American, Grade 7: 38% Grade 9: Less than 10 respondents Grade 11: Less than 10 respondents White, Grade 7: 43% Grade 9: 48% Grade 11: 39%   Less than half of our middle and upper school students feel safe or very safe at school. This is an area that needs improvement.  “At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me.” Percentage of students responding pretty much true or very much true. Grade 7: 57% Grade 9: 52% Grade 11: 62%  I am happy to be at this school. Percentage of students responding Very much true or pretty much true. Grade 7: 44% Grade 9: 48% Grade 11: 45%   Less than half of students in 7th, 9th and 11th grades indicated that they are happy to be at school. This is an area of deep concern for the District.  As a result of our most recent CHKS data, SKUSD has implemented the Capturing Kids Hearts program district-wide. Teachers and administrators learned strategies to build more meaningful engagement with students, including a series of activities to launch the school year. This research-based program is helping us to improve our school climate and help students to feel safer and more connected to their schools.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
53738330000000|Southern Trinity Joint Unified|6|The Healthy Kids survey was administered last spring.  Grades 5, 7,9 and 11 responded to this survey.  Due to our small numbers the results are reported county wide which could cause some difference in response accuracy.  Relying on Healthy Kids Survey results indicate that approximately 76% of reporting 5th-grade students and an average of 50% of 7,9 and 11th graders feel the schools allow and encourage parental involvement and welcome parents' contributions.  Efforts continue to be made to encourage the public to attend meetings where important decisions are being discussed and decided on. Notices are regularly sent home with students, and meetings are posted on our marquee.  We are working toward posting more notices on our social media page in hopes of improving parent attendance and decision making involvement.|2019-10-15|For the 2019-20 school year, our Booster Club groups and teacher-led parent group have synchronized their meetings to occur on the same day.  This will assist parents with travel time and cost and is predicted to lead to higher parent involvement leading to an increase in positive school climate.|Met|2019
35675530000000|Southside Elementary|6|The school will complete year 3 of establishing a comprehensive behavior support plan through PBIS. PBIS includes behavioral expectations, recognition systems and consequence systems. This year the school will administer the California Healthy kids survey to students, staff and parents.  The school will complete year 3 of implementing MTSS, a tiered system of support. Professional development sessions will be provided through the SWIFT system. The staff will complete two fidelity measures to gage the level of implementation to the priorities of SWIFT. The Fidelity Inventory tool (FIT) will be taken two times once in November and again in April. The school Fidelity Implementation Assessment (FIA) will be taken in February 2020. For PBIS the Tiered Fidelity Index (TFI) will be taken in October or November 2019.|2019-10-09|The California Healthy Kids survey was not administered last year and will be administered in the 19-20 school year. Separately, a survey was administered to all parents at the start of the year to inventory the needs of their student. Based upon the responses, the district provided tiered levels of support of help meet the needs of students.|Met|2019
37681970136408|Sparrow Academy|6|1. Data:  The overarching learning from the survey results was that students generally feel very safe and supported here at Sparrow. They know that teachers and adults respect them and want the best for them, and they are clear on school expectations and trust that unsafe and disrespectful behavior will be dealt with sufficiently and fairly. They like coming to school here.  2. Meaning: Our sense of community and strong culture of positive discipline is having the effect we intend it to have. This is an area of strength for our school.   3. Use: In response to this survey, the school will continue to provide support and training to the classroom teachers on methods and strategies to more consistently practice Positive Discipline in proactive ways, such as class meetings.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
37684030000000|Spencer Valley Elementary|6|A short school-generated safety and well-being questionnaire created by teachers for the upper grade students was used to record students’ anonymous responses because parents did not wish their children to participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey. SVESD also compiled parent perceptions about their child’s safety taken from the parent survey. The district parent groups reviewed options for survey tools and recommended the CORE Elementary Student Survey. Below are the key findings from the 2018-19 survey: School is perceived as a place where students feel safe and can usually solve their problems or are comfortable accessing an adult to help them solve a problem.  The school had no suspensions or expulsions in 2017-2018 and 2016-2017. The following is some data from the 2018-2019 Student and Parent surveys: 100% of parents responded to the Parent Survey; 83% of parents who responded felt that their child was generally free from insults and verbal abuse at school; 100% of students responded 95% of students said that in general they felt safe at school; 65% of students felt they could solve their own problems at school; 83% of students felt they could ask an adult for help if they had not been able to solve a problem. About 65% of the students attend the homework hour. Taken together these results demonstrate that the positive relationships nurtured at SVESD have resulted in the students feeling safe and connected to the school. Restorative Practices training for staff took place in 2016-2017 and 2017-2018, and Building Positive Behavior Support in Schools took place in spring 17-18 for all staff. Because of staff turn over, training in these programs will continue in 19-20 for new staff.|2019-10-23|The school district will keep the student LCAP survey and add the CORE Elementary Student Survey, as recommended by staff and parents last year.|Met|2019
27662250000000|Spreckels Union Elementary|6|Results from last year's Student Climate Survey taken by all district students in 4th-8th grade were very encouraging in terms of supporting students and creating a safe learning environment.  The survey indicated that: 77 percent of elementary school students (and 60 percent of middle school students) like school; 82 percent of elementary students (and 89 percent of middle school students) believe they do well in school; 92 percent of elementary students (and 82 percent of middle school students) felt the schools wanted them to do well; 90 percent of elementary students (and 80 percent of middle school students) feel their teachers treated them with respect; and 82 percent of elementary students (and 75 percent of middle school students) feel safe at school.  The lowest scoring survey responses ("Students treat each other well" and "Students in my class behave so the teacher can teach") provide opportunities for the District to work with staff and students to identify interventions and strategies to better support student-to-student interactions.  Two specific actions were taken this school year to address these issues:  1) The implementation of Playworks at the elementary school and 2) bringing in a nationally recognized expert on bullying prevention to work with students, staff, and parents.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
49708966052039|Spring Creek Matanzas Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was last administered in the Spring of 2018.  At that time, 78% of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported feeling safe at school "all" or "most" of the time. Rincon Valley Union School District administers a local student survey annually. In 2018-19, 81% of elementary students and 81% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school "always" or "often." In addition, 84% of elementary students and 83% of middle school students reported that they are "always" or "often" happy to be at this school. The school district decided to continue providing professional development for more social emotional programs for staff to implement.  The 7th and 8th grade charter school also implemented the Stop It program for students to have a safe way to report incidents to staff.  We have heard from staff and parents for the ongoing need for counselors at our school sites to support the development of social emotional skills.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
54721320000000|Springville Union Elementary|6|The LEA provided the opportunity for students, staff, and parents to participate in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 5th & 7th grades. School Safety/Climate is a High Priority for the District. The CHKS revealed that 53% of 7% graders and 44% of 5th graders felt safe at school. The CHKS revealed that 31% of 7th neither felt one way or the other and 31% of 5th graders felt safe some of the time. The District is presently implementing additional safety measures to ensure students, not only feel safe, but are safe traveling to, from, and while attending school. The LEA used the LCAP Survey as a means to evaluate the Districts' ability to Create and/or Maintain a Positive School Climate. The results revealed 59% of those returned marked High, 30% marked Medium, and 11% marked Low. The District will continue to collect and monitor feedback regarding School Safety/Climate, as well as, seek ways to further enable and support students, parents, and staff with communication regarding their safety concerns.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
34674390101048|St. HOPE Public School 7|6|St. HOPE Public School 7 (PS7) surveys students each school year, and every student in grades 6 through 8 is encouraged to share their thoughts on a variety of metrics. The surveys are optionally anonymous to promote honest responses, and the school and its classroom teachers invest students in the survey by explaining how the results are used to guide decision-making in the coming months. In the 2018-19 school year, 78% of the students in grades 6th-8th responded to the mid-year survey.   A focus area for these surveys is gauging students’ level of safety and connectedness at school. In 2018-19, 85% of PS7 student respondents said they agree or strongly agree that their family knows how they’re doing in school, which indicates families and PS7 are connected and in communication in a way that is easily perceptible to students. Student survey results also indicate students feel connected to their teachers and believe their teachers are guiding them appropriately toward their long-term goals. Seventy-four percent said their teachers have high expectations for them, and 83% said they think doing well in school is important for the future. In addition, 81% agreed or strongly agreed they know what it takes to be promoted to the next grade, 82% agreed or strongly agreed that they understand what they have to do to get to college, and 67% said their school is preparing them for college.  Students responded positively to questions specifically about safety. Forty-nine percent said their school is a safe environment for them to learn (an additional 34% were neutral on the subject). In addition, 55% said there is an adult they can talk to at school when they need to do so.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
15637920000000|Standard Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the 2017-18 school year.  Results were analyzed by the administrative team and key data points are shared and disseminated through the annual LCAP.  For example, we prioritized the data on school disconnectedness and sense of safety.   Based upon the 2017-18 data, increased staffing was added to each of the schools to support safety and well being, as well as to support the positive school climate and the implementation of social emotional learning.  Since the implementation of student support programs and additional staffing, the district has seen an increase in student attendance, a decrease in chronic absenteeism and a decrease in the student suspension rate. No survey was conducted during the 2018-19 school year, since it is only required every 2 years.  The district plans to administer a new school climate survey in 2019-20.|2019-10-08|The district has been committed to implementing Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) over the last five years.  We are proud that for the second year in a row, every school in our district has been recognized by the CA-PBIS Coalition for continuous improvement.  We are the only district in Kern County to have all schools recognized as award winners; Highland Elementary Platinum for 2 years, Standard Middle School Gold, Standard and Wingland Elementary Silver.|Met|2019
50105040129023|Stanislaus Alternative Charter|6|The charter serves students/adults age 18 and above.  Students attend weekly sessions with assigned instructors at sites throughout the county for their academic instruction.  The programs School Site Council includes student participation and the SSC also serves as the LCAP advisory group.  The school received a full six (6) years WASC accreditation in the spring of 2018. Through SSC input, teacher observation and informal student conversation, mental health services and child day care opportunities have been expanded.  In addition, students are able to attend school during expanded hours of operation to accommodate as many as possible.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
50105040000000|Stanislaus County Office of Education|6|The LEA administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for grades 7-12 in the spring of 2019.  This survey is administered every two year and data will be updated following the Spring 2021 administration.  The Spring 2019 CHKS captured a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. 231 students completed the CHKS at PACE, John B Allard and Stanislaus County Institute of Learning.  This reflects 75% of the targeted goal for completion.   Student data reflecting safety and connectedness is favorable.  63% of the students surveyed reported that they felt Very Safe or Safe on campus, 32% reported they felt Neither Safe or Unsafe and 5% felt Unsafe or Very Unsafe.   Of those reporting they felt Very Safe and Safe, 65% were female and 62% male; the ethnic breakdown reported for the same is 64% Hispanic or Latino, 53% White and 72% Mixed (two or more races) Overall 43% of students have a High rating in School Connectedness, 42% have a Moderate rating and 16% rated low.  The questions in this category include: “I feel close to people in my school”, “I am happy to be at this school”, “I feel like I am part of this school”. Overall, 86% of students had moderate or high school supports, reflecting caring adults and high expectations and participation in school. 76% of students reported no incidents of harassment. 79% of students reported use of alcohol or drugs in the past and 39% admitted to current usage.  Specific items of particular relevance to school safety and connectedness include reasons for truancy. For example, 18% of students noted emotional health issues interfered with the ability to attend school; 21 of those claimed lack of sleep as their primary difficulty. In addition, only 34% of students stated that their parents were highly involved in their education. Analysis of the data demonstrates that students will continue to benefit from counseling and mentoring services from LEA staff and collaborative agencies. Areas of student need include substance and alcohol abuse; truancy from school; and emotional wellness concerns. The LEA will continue to partner with collaborative agencies and utilize appropriate staff to address areas of need. In addition, student perception of low parent involvement mirrors data collected during the LCAP process. The LEA plans to collaborate with parent outreach services from the district in order to facilitate increased involvement.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
50712820000000|Stanislaus Union Elementary|6|In the year of 2018-19, we administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CalSCHLS) to students in grades five (5) and seven (7).  Student responses are returned to SUSD in the style of a percentage of students self-reporting.  Included are the responses to the areas of focus from the survey.  School Connectedness:  Grade 5: 73%  Grade 7: 72%    Academic Motivation:  Grade 5: 89%  Grade 7: 79%  Caring Adults at School (5)  Caring Adult Relationships (7):  Grade 5: 74%  Grade 7: 67%  High Expectations - Adults in School:  Grade 5: 86%  Grade 7: 82%  Meaningful Participation:  Grade 5: 44%  Grade 7: 36%  Facilities Upkeep:  Grade 5: 77%  Grade 7: 66%    Parent Involvement in Schooling:  Grade 5: 82%  Grade 7: 66%    Social and Emotional Learning Supports (grade 5 only):  Grade 5: 77%    Anti-Bullying Climate (grade 5 only):  Grade 5: 78%   Chronic Truancy  2x/monthly (grade 7 only):  Grade 7: 2%   School perceived as very safe or safe (grade 7 only):  Grade 7: 71%  Current drug or alcohol use (grade 7 only):  Grade 7: 3%    Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness (grade 7 only):  Grade 7: 28%   This information was presented to the board at a regularly scheduled board meeting of the SUSD governing board on February 21, 2019.|2019-02-21||Met|2019
37681303731262|Steele Canyon High|6|Steele Canyon High School (SCHS) routinely utilizes data to help our school community meet Local Control Accountability Plan priorities to improve school climate, pupil engagement, parent involvement, and academic achievement.   To this end, SCHS administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) every other year to its freshmen and junior student population.   This along with the California School Parent Survey (CSPS)  is administered to their families.  The SCHS Certificated and Classified Staff is also asked to participate in the California School Staff Survey (CSSS).  These results, as well as an annual student school climate survey, provide valuable information that SCHS uses to revise current policies and practices in an effort to ensure that every student, every day is receiving the academic, behavioral and social-emotional supports they need to be successful. The following modules are included in the CHKS survey: Closing the Achievement Gap, Resilience and Youth Development, and Social-Emotional Health.  Based on the 2017-18 CHKS results, 77 percent of grade 9 students and 68 percent of grade 11,  reported that they agree or strongly agree that they feel safe at school. The data analyzed by race/ethnicity indicated that among the 9th-grade students, 76 percent of Hispanic/Latino students,  63 percent of African American Students, 69 percent of Asian students, 75 percent of White students and 70 percent of Mixed (Two or More Races) reported feeling safe or very safe at school.  11th-grade students reported that 64 percent of Hispanic/Latino students,  65 percent of African American Students, 80 percent of Asian students, 70 percent of White students and 64 percent of Mixed (Two or More Races) reported feeling safe or very safe at school.   Based on these findings, SCHS has implemented Restorative Practice and Restorative Justice in our programs.  SCHS has partnered with Community Matters as part of our effort to address our goal of providing a safe and supportive environment that affords all students the opportunity to thrive and achieve their academic and personal goals.  Community Matters’ Mission is to achieve positive behavioral outcomes and sustain an inclusive and restorative culture on campus.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647330137604|Stella Elementary Charter Academy|6|To assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school administered a verbal end-of-year student survey. This survey was administered to student focus groups from each kindergarten class at Stella  Elementary Charter Academy  in spring 2019. Students were asked four questions regarding their feelings about their teacher, school activities and whether they feel safe at school.  Students were asked to respond to each question and give examples. Students responded affirmatively and gave examples for all four questions asked.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330100669|Stella Middle Charter Academy|6|SMCA - to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019. School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 55% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average N/A  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 46%  Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average N/A  Use District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student Surveys for 2018-2019|2019-10-28||Met|2019
45701100135889|Stellar Charter|6|School Climate 74% of parents responded they were allowed input into school decision making. 98% of Parents felt Stellar was a safe place for their child. 96% of parents agreed and strongly agreed  that Stellar was a partner in their child’s education. 10 out of 11 teachers and 7 out of 7 support staff  are satisfied that Stellar’s campus is clean, safe and functional. 98% of students indicated they felt safe on campus.|2019-06-25||Met|2019
19647330136986|STEM Preparatory Elementary|6|At STEM Prep Elementary we take school safety and connectedness very seriously, as such we administer a survey to all students every year. When asked if they agree with the statement, “At this school I feel safe” 93% of students answered Yes. Regarding connectedness, when asked if they agree with the statement,  “I feel like I am part of this school,”  88% of students agreed. Students feel safe at school and feel respected and connected with each other and staff.|2019-02-06||Met|2019
39686760120725|Stockton Collegiate International Elementary|6|Stockton Collegiate International Elementary School regularly reviews individual and aggregate reports from both parents and students about school safety and perceptions of connectedness. Procedures are in place to address individual concerns promptly and to adjust systems at least annually when necessary.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
39686760120733|Stockton Collegiate International Secondary|6|Stockton Collegiate International Secondary School regularly reviews individual and aggregate reports from both parents and students about safety and perceptions of connectedness. Procedures are in place to address individual concerns promptly and to adjust systems at least annually when necessary.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
39686760119743|Stockton Early College Academy|6|A review of the fall school climate survey indicated that overall SECA students felt safer and more connected to the school than in the previous year (Safe 91%, “a part of the school” 81%). While the majority of students (75% SECA vs 47% SUSD) answered yes “I feel like my voice matters to teachers and administrators on campus”, follow up meetings with staff highlighted that teachers and administrators felt like more could be done to improve that number to 100%. When asked, teachers replied that they wanted to create greater opportunities to make student voices heard and give students a greater voice.  91% of students reported feeling safe in their school. In follow up focus group sessions involving 9-12 grade students the majority of students reported that it was likely new ninth grade students who made up the majority of those reporting feeling unsafe. 75% of students felt like their voice matters to teachers and administration on campus. Follow up focus group sessions brought two significant issues to light. First, many students reported a need to utilize the student leadership structure to help create opportunities for student/teacher interaction and more open focus group or listening session time with the school principal. Second, the majority of students mentioned that interactions with a couple of specific individual teachers has tainted the trust and faith in the idea of “student voice”. Students stated that the relationship with these individual teachers can overshadow their positive experience with all of their other teachers and make students feel like their voice is not being heard.  Upon the completion of the climate survey, SECA conducted a series of student focus groups to address issues and gather student input. This effort served to both bring clarity to specific issues causing the data and allowed opportunity for student voices to be heard. One area of concern was that, while significantly higher than the surrounding district averages, many students still felt their voice did not matter. After participating in these focus groups students reported that the focus group itself was a valuable component in helping them to feel like their voice was being heard and that it mattered. Student leaders on campus highlighted their thankfulness that SECA empowers student leadership on campus, and that reviewing the data helped them to shape upcoming student events and create opportunities to build feelings of involvement and caring, particularly with incoming 9th grade students.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
39686760000000|Stockton Unified|6|Data analyzed included the 2018-2019 Cal-SCHLS (by the CDE inclusive of students-CHKS - administered to identified grade levels, and staff-CSCS) and the 2018-2019 end of the year PLUS (Peer Leaders Uniting Students) climate surveys (administered to all 4th-12th grade students by grade span). Although different scales are used on the Cal-SCHLS and PLUS surveys to measure student (staff) perceptions, comparison of trends across similar constructs is reported. Overall, elementary and middle school students reported higher levels of school connectedness and safety than high school students, and staff reported lower perceptions than students across both measures. School connectedness was measured through a series of questions about students’ experience with caring adults and opportunities for participation (CHKS) and as an indicator of being “part of the school” (PLUS). About 45% of students reported high levels of school connectedness (CHKS) and more than 60% felt part of the school (PLUS) across each grade span. Additionally, more than 71% of students reported there was at least one adult who cared about them (PLUS), and between 54% through 60% of students reported high levels of caring adult relationships (CHKS). Elementary staff perceived that a higher percentage of adults really cared about students and a higher percentage of elementary staff felt school is a safe place for students than reported by staff at high schools in both areas. Students’ perception of school safety was higher than that of staff. Over 60% of students felt safe (PLUS), and about half of the students felt very safe or safe at school (CHKS). Disaggregation of the PLUS data indicate that across all race/ethnicity, elementary students’ perception of school were more positive than middle and high school students. This trend was evident in both school connectedness (feeling part of the school, knowing a caring adult at school) and school safety. No significant difference was observed across race/ethnicity regarding school connectedness and safety. However, continuous monitoring of disaggregated data may highlight trends that would benefit from targeted outreach and implementation of actions that are culturally relevant to ensure students feel supported at school. The PLUS Program, has been operating in SUSD since 2012 as a data-driven youth-led approach to improving school climate. The district utilizes PLUS school climate data to inform district-wide LCAP actions and accountability, PBIS/MTSS actions and development, and PLUS Program implementation. Each school site also uses it for their own improvement plans. The PLUS program is at 49 school sites in SUSD with a team of student leaders participating in Youth Participatory Action Research (YPAR). In YPAR, student PLUS leaders utilize school climate data to research and develop meaningful actions to implement that address and improve climate conditions for students at their school sites.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
28662660108605|Stone Bridge|6|Stone Bridge School administers student surveys annually which provide insight regarding school safety and connectedness. Those students participating in the survey were 5th graders (from the K-5 span) and students in the 6th, 7th and 8th grades (entire 6-8 span).    Across the board, students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel safe, supported, and connected at their school.  Any concerns raised will be discussed with specific teachers and changes may be made based on that discussion.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
54721400000000|Stone Corral Elementary|6|The National School Climate Center identifies five elements of school climate: (1) safety (rules and norms, physical security, social-emotional security); (2) teaching and learning (support for learning, social and civic learning); (3) interpersonal relationships (respect for diversity, social support from adults, social support from peers); (4) institutional environment (school connectedness, engagement, physical surroundings); and (5) staff relationships (leadership, professional relationships).  Students were given a survey to measure perceptions of school safety and engagement.  The survey was a modified California Healthy Kids Survey given to students in grades 4-8.  Student (both younger and older) survey responses demonstrated a uniformity of perceptions related to school safety and connectedness.  In analyzing the survey, the following conclusions could be presented:  The physical dimension of school climate:  Appearance of the school building and its classrooms- Students felt that the school was a clean and safe learning environment  School size and ratio of students to teachers in the classroom- Students felt that the small size of the school and class size helped them learn because they felt there could be more of a focus on each individual student.  Order and organization of classrooms in the school- Students liked their classrooms and felt the classrooms were safe and conducive to learning.  Availability of resources- Students felt they had adequate textbooks, library books, support material, and access to technology.  Safety and comfort- Students felt safe.  They felt that the staff cared. If there were academic or behavioral problems the teacher or other staff members were there to take of them.  The social dimension of school climate includes:  Quality of interpersonal relationships between and among students, teachers, and staff- The students felt that the staff was dedicated to teaching all students.  The staff made learning interesting, they gave encouragement, and noticed when they were doing a good job.  Equitable and fair treatment of students by teachers and staff- Students felt that the teachers, students, and staff were treated with respect and gave respect.  Students felt that adults in this school apply the same rules to all students equally.  The academic dimension of school climate includes:  Quality of instruction- Students felt their teachers gave good, engaging lessons and activities.  Students felt the teachers gave  them encouragement  Teacher expectations for student achievement- Teachers let the students know what was to be learned and how to show that they learned it.  Monitoring student progress and promptly reporting results to students and parents- Students felt the teacher noticed when they were doing a good job or were having difficulties and let them know it.  Teachers and staff communicated with parents about academic and behavior progress.|2019-10-10|Stone Corral annually measures its progress in: (1) seeking input from parents in decision making; and (2) promoting parental participation in programs, and reports the results to its local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting of the local governing board and to stakeholders and the public through the evaluation rubrics.|Met|2019
11626530000000|Stony Creek Joint Unified|6|LEA is expanding opportunities for students to particpate in athletics as well as afterschool programs. Introduction of robotics program will enhance student involvment and engagement in all grades.|2019-10-14|LEA has brought in a behavior specialist one day per week to work with students who need social/emotional support. The high school expanded its athletic program to include a small cross country team along with volleyball and basketball which it has not had in three years. This will help students engage and feel part of the school.|Met|2019
54721570000000|Strathmore Union Elementary|6|Strathmore Union Elementary School District conducts a survey each year. This survey goes out to all students in grades 4-8. Survey questions include such things as "I believe it is important to maintain and/or create a positive school environment," "My classroom is a good learning environment," "I attend school regularly," "I feel safe at school/the school has an effective anti-bullying policy," and "I feel comfortable taking my concerns to school personnel including the teacher, principal, and others." In the 2018-2019 Annual Needs Assessment, 71.9% of the students responded positively to the question (#20): "I feel safe at school/the school has an effective anti-bullying policy." This was an increase of 2.5% from the previous year. Parents and teachers responded that 92.7% of them believed that their child was safe at school. Results of the surveys are shared with school administrators and then publicly shared at a school board meeting. In addition, the District gives the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year to students in the 5th and 7th grades. This survey was last given in the 2018-2019 school year, but those results will not be available until later this year. In 2016-2017, the survey was completed by 98% of our 5th graders and 97% of our 7th graders. In the last reported data, 89% of our 5th graders and 94% of our 7th graders reported that their school connectedness was moderate or high. In this same survey, 89% of the fifth graders and 75% of the seventh graders felt that they had meaningful participation at school. Because of input from stakeholders, additional funds will continue to be allocated next year to bring in speakers for anti-bullying assemblies.  Many things can impact school climate, which our feedback continues to show as extremely important to all stakeholders. School gardens can do many things to help improve the school climate. They provide opportunities for students to have hands-on inquiry, observation, and experimentation experiences. They promote physical activity and outdoor experiences. They also can supply locally grown produce for students and their families to consume. To help provide this positive boost to our school climate, the District will create a larger school garden for students to raise a variety of plants throughout the school year.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
04615070129577|STREAM Charter|6|STREAM administers the CHKS with grades 3, 5, and 6 as an indicator of school climate. The results suggest that 98% of students report a high level of connectedness at school; 90% of students report a high level of academic motivation; 100% of students report that they have at least one adult at school who cares about them (office, teacher, principal); 98% of students report that they feel safe at school; 100% of students report that the adults show respect toward students; 96% of students report that they understand school rules; 96% of students report that they think school rules are fair; 94% of students report that the school is kept neat and clean; 51% of students report that they had been or seen others picked on or bullied at school; and 11% of students reported that they have bullied others at school. These results were presented to the STREAM Governing Board on 10/30/2019 as a check to determine if students feel safe and connected while at school. We are continuing to work on our PBIS to address concerns.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
11101160130724|Success One!|6|1.  Adult students prefer the independent study model for the flexibility of working in between their job hours, child care and family obligations.  Students feel welcomed and respected by their independent study teachers. 2. Other adult high schools often require them to put in work hours on campus which is often too difficult to manage. 3. Continue providing child care on campus. Continue streamlining the independent study instructional model.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19650450000000|Sulphur Springs Union|6|All TK-6th grade students in the Sulphur Springs Union School District (SSUSD) have the opportunity to take the District's Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP) Student Survey each spring. The questions on the student survey range in topics including safety, access and opportunity to learn, cleanliness of facilities, and relationships with staff. Survey data led to some of the actions in the District's 2019-2020 LCAP. For example, TK-2nd Grade Survey results are the following: “My school helps me to learn - Yes 97, and My school provides everything I need to learn while at school - Yes 91%” Even though the results are high for students feeling that they are learning in the schools, staff is analyzing the 2019 State Testing results as well as summative data from grades TK-2 to further discuss ways to increase student achievement. The District knows that there is a need in English Language Arts and mathematics, as well as, in English Language Development. The Educational Services Department continues to provide staff PD to enhance student learning. Most of the students stated, “I feel safe and secure while at school - Yes 88%.” To ensure a continued focus on making sure that students have a sense of safety while attending school, the District has a security system in place at all nine schools. Visitors must show identification before they enter the school. Also, all schools have perimeter fencing installed. The District is ensuring that all school windows have blinds installed. This is currently being implemented this year and the following. Each school has implemented a positive behavior program and the District continues to make sure that students do look forward to coming to school each day. Survey results for this were - Yes 71.4%. Several of the schools have implemented Capturing Kids’ Hearts. This program focuses on strengthening relationships between staff and students and works to foster learning and increased self-esteem in students. Additional schools will be implementing this program next year as additional funding becomes available. The District has also looked into the results of, “My school is clean and safe - Yes 68%.” It is important that the students know that they have a clean, safe school to learn in every day. One of the barriers that came up from the students’ comments was that they stated that students were not taking care of the restrooms. Due to students feedback, staff have been asked to monitor the restrooms more closely to support students when using the restrooms. It is very important that students in the District know that they receive positive encouragement every day from their teachers, staff, office staff, and Principal. The survey indicated that the students feel that staff makes education a priority by 70%. This is a continued area that staff will focus on since there is a strong need to ensure that students know how important education is and that staff is there to support their needs at all times.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
55724050000000|Summerville Elementary|6|Summerville Elementary School administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to all students in grades 5 and grades 7 during the Spring of 2019. The date from the survey was compiled and analyzed to determine student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Overall, responses expressed a comprehensive impression of student connectedness to teachers and staff. Results also expressed a general sense of respect and well-being from staff and peers. Less than half and the survey sample reported some instances of bullying or issues with other peers, more than half reported feeling safe and connected to the school. There was a lower than expected rating in regards to attendance and daily attendance of school. Further investigation is needed to support a higher attendance rate and a higher rate of perceived need to attend school on the part of the students.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
55724130000000|Summerville Union High|6|Based on the findings from our California Healthy Kids Survey (grades 9 and 11 surveyed), Summerville High School and Connections Visual and Performing Arts Academy realized the following results: students feel the school is a safe place to be (9th 58% agree, 11th 70% agree), adults have high expectations and encourage students to learn (9th 65% agree, 11th 74% agree), there are caring adults at the school (9th 59% agree, 11th 66% agree), students have academic motivation (9th 71% agree, 11th 67% agree),  teachers work hard to help with school work (9th 53% agree 11th 48% agree), teachers encourage classroom participation (9th 64% agree 11th 58% agree), staff promotes academic success for all students (9th 48% agree 11th 53% agree, parents 77% ), SUHSD provides a supportive and inviting environment for learning (9th 52% agree 11th 45% agree, parents 71%), staff makes it clear that bullying is not tolerated (9th 53% agree 11th 50% agree), school grounds and building are clean (9th 66% agree 11th 75% agree), there is good support from the community (parents 94%), there are opportunities for parents and community to be involved in school (parents 96%). Areas to continue our work on include: students have considered suicide (9th 24% agree 11th 19% agree), there is meaningful student participation (9th 28% agree 11th 31% agree), affected by harassment through rumors (9th 42% agree 11th 46% agree for one or more times), students experience cyberbullying (9th 28% agree 11th 28% agree for one or more times).  Students have experienced an increase of use of marijuana through edibles, smoking, and vaping. We are committed again this year to having a parent and student information night in addition to what they learn in school about drug use, drug abuse and how to say no or help oneself or a friend stay away from drugs.|2019-10-23|Summerville High School and Connections Visual and Performing Arts Academy have implemented the Character Counts program that allows staff to recognized students for doing the right thing with regard to the 6 character counts pillars of Trustworthiness, Respect, Responsibility, Fairness, Caring and Citizenship.  There is a luncheon for students that are recognized and the people that awarded the student speak about why they were selected in front of the group.  The students each receive a Character Counts t-shirt as well.  These ceremonies are done monthly. ASB continues to provide a leadership of the campus to address positive interrelationships between students, between students and adults and within our community of learners through social media. The Summerville High and Connections Academy California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) results have shown good improvement over the last year especially in areas such as feeling safe at school, feeling as if adults care about students, and provide a learning environment where academic achievement is not only important but supported as well. Conversely, the CHKS survey reflects that there are still areas of growth at Summerville High and Connection Academy such as: dealing with feelings of depression, anxiety, hopelessness, suicidal ideation, and cyberbullying.   In addition, students feel that there could be more meaningful participation in school and more parent involvement.|Met|2019
54718370109009|Summit Charter Academy|6|During the 18-19 school year the district conducted a survey of our students in multiple grades in each of those grade spans. The overall result from the survey data demonstrated that 74.7% of our students Agreed or Strongly Agreed with feeling safe at school. When we further looked at the data we discovered that while this was valuable aggregate data that we needed additional details about this in order to make it actionable. However, through looking at the results we determined that the survey itself would not allow us to adequate data in order to make it actionable at each of our sites. As a result of this data review the district has implemented a number of changes for our schools. We have dedicated more funding in our LCAP to a Multi Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) that works to address not only the academic needs of our students but also the social emotional and behavioral needs of those students. This implementation was in addition to the work the district has previously done in the area of school climate and provides our students an sites additional resources that they might not otherwise have available to them. Overall we believe that long term the implementation MTSS across the district will provide our students the best climate for their educational experience.|2019-10-21|The survey administered in the 2019-2020 school year will allow us to better disaggregate the data by our student groups which will allow us to take better actions as a result of the data.|Met|2019
36750440107516|Summit Leadership Academy-High Desert|6|The LEA utilizes annual LCAP surveys to retrieve data and input on student campus-wide perception, in addition to the Healthy Kids survey in the 2016/2017 school year, since then, questions have been integrated into the LCAP survey.  From the data our students all have a desire to do well academically, yet feel unprepared to do so, thus, resulting in the LCAP goals strategically planning on meeting the needs of students' social, emotional and physical well being and increased family and community engagement (2019/20 LCAP goals one and two).  Upon determining the schoolwide needs, the next step is to determine resources used to meet those needs, which can be a challenge and barrier due to budgeting resources and is outlined in the 19/20 LCAP. This often results in the LEA being very intentional when collaborating with families and community members, proving to be an area of growth. Summit Leadership Academy- High Desert provides rigorous academics and public service education in developing students to become future leaders, and has a great amount of support from the community. Survey findings are shared with staff throughout annual LCAP meetings and presented to the Governing Board as a precursor for the LCAP approval.  The LEA recognizes the need to provide social, emotional and physical well being tools and resources to students, as well as engagement from families and community members. In order to meet these needs, the LEA provides continuous training for staff, including the guidance counselors, focusing on student, family and community engagement, restorative practices and Crisis Prevention and Intervention.  Community members have provided school supplies from the 2017/2018 school year to present day. Items such as notebooks, writing utensils, rulers, glue, and folders are greatly appreciated and help supplement the needs of the school, so all students have school supplies to succeed.|2019-11-15||Met|2019
19647330131839|Summit Preparatory Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
41690620112722|Summit Preparatory Charter High|6|Summit Prep believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit Prep take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  It also maps to our relatively low number of suspensions and expulsions.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
07100740129684|Summit Public School K2|6|Summit K2 believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit K2 take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  It also maps to our relatively low number of suspensions and expulsions.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
43104390128090|Summit Public School: Denali|6|Summit Denali believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit Denali take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging.  Our data does suggest that a number of students feel bullied and/or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and have actively worked to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.  We are also actively working on our integrated behavioral and support systems to make sure that all students are growing and developing on appropriate, personalized trajectories as they work to become members of our heterogenous community.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
43694270123745|Summit Public School: Rainier|6|Summit Rainier believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit Rainier take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
41689240127548|Summit Public School: Shasta|6|Summit Shasta believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit Shasta take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  It also maps to our relatively low number of suspensions and expulsions.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
43104390123794|Summit Public School: Tahoma|6|Summit Tahoma believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit Tahoma take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  It also maps to our relatively low number of suspensions and expulsions.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to address this.  We also train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond accordingly if students need additional support.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
07617960133637|Summit Public School: Tamalpais|6|Summit Tam believes that physical and emotional safety are paramount to students being able to reach their long-term and short-term goals and meet our school's mission.  Our small, personalized model of teaching and learning is based in student relationships and community.  Our curriculum and class structure is designed to grow students in their content knowledge, cognitive skills, habits of success and purpose.  Each week our students meet with their teacher mentors to develop their sense of belonging and grow in their habits.  We also have a mentor group structure that creates the intentional space to come together as a community and focus on building connections and community habits.  Our school also uses restorative practices to build and maintain peace in the community.  While our school model is intentionally designed to hear from students often about their connection and personal growth, we also believe in the power of measures and tools to hear from our students directly and to collect data to drive decisions about how to better support our students.  Twice a year students at Summit Tam take a student survey where we ask about their sense of belonging and their perception of their relationship to the school and the adults in the building.  We also directly ask about student and community climate with questions about bullying and harassment.  Results of this survey suggest that most students feel that adults are treated with respect at our school.  Students also report high levels of belonging and low levels of reported bullying and harassment.  This data overlaps with reports we have from mentors about students in crises, inter and intra personal relationships.  It also maps to our relatively low number of suspensions and expulsions.  While we feel that most students feel belonging at our school, there are students who feel disconnected and report feelings of isolation from their peers and in some cases feeling bullied or harassed.  We take this data very seriously and actively work to promptly address student concerns as they arise. We proactively tailor our habits-based curriculum, mentoring and community experience to ensure multiple touchpoints for mentors to be made aware of student needs.  We train our mentors to identify student needs and to respond with broad support structures.|2019-06-20||Met|2019
54721730000000|Sundale Union Elementary|6|All results with the School's Healthy Choices Survey during the 2017-2018 school year 85% indicated students feeling safe at school and making healthy choices for themselves, in relation to Drug, Alcohol and Tobacco use.  Sundale's criteria for success is responses ranging from 80%-100% of students feeling safe and making positive choices.  Sundale is also researching a trauma based program/survey to administer to middle school students to better support/recognize students who are or have experienced trauma.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
54721810000000|Sunnyside Union Elementary|6|Sunnyside Union Elementary administered a Climate Survey was administered to students in Grade 5 and Grade 7 in October 2019. According to survey results, it was concluded that: 80% of the students surveyed feel safe at school All or Most of the time  69% enjoy coming to school All or Most of the time 77% of the students feel they are treated kindly by other students All or Most of the time 63% of the students feel they get to do interesting things at school All or Most of the time 51% of students feel staff make an effort to get to know them All or Most of the time 86% of students feel students are well behaved at school All or Most of the time 80% of students feel if they tell a staff member they are getting bullied they feel teachers will do something about it All or Most of the time 93% of students have not been hit or pushed by another student this school year 93% of students have not had any rumors or lies told about them or someone else 2% of students have brought a dangerous weapon to school 22% of the students saw the dangerous weapon  One area that Sunnyside staff has been working very hard on implementing for the last 2 school years is the social-emotional well being of students. The Sunnyside certificated and classified staff are receiving training on the importance of caring for all students and making an effort to get to know them. Currently 50% of students feel staff makes an effort to know them. We will continue to offer trainings and share these results with staff and stress the importance of making connections and relationships with students. Our goal would be that 100% KNOW without a doubt know that we truly care about each and every one of our students. Sunnyside currently has psychological services twice weekly in addition to a social worker and social worker intern to help students and staff build better relationships with students. Ensuring meeting social-emotional needs will continue to be a priority for all staff.  Previously an area of concern last year was student's feeling safe. This year, we had 80% of our students feeling staff All or Most of the time. This is a vast improvement from last year. But still an area that we will continue to work on and hopefully improve.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
43696900000000|Sunnyvale|6|1) SSD has a targeted focus on behavior and social-emotional learning (SEL).  Student safety and connectedness are addressed in LCAP Goal 2: Ensure school and classroom environments promote social-emotional well being. We use Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) to maintain a positive school climate, and we use the Panorama Survey to evaluate students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness. In grades 3-5, 69% of students report a strong sense of school connectedness, which is in the 90th percentile. Responses are consistent across ethnicities and genders. Our Latinx students, an area of focus district-wide, have a 67% positive response rate. In grades 6-8, we see a decline in school connectedness, with 44% responding positively, falling in the 20th percentile. In middle school, there is greater variability among ethnicities, with the lowest response rate (27%) among American Indian students and the highest (56%) among Asian Indian students. In school safety, 64% of our 3rd-5th graders respond positively, which is in the 70th percentile. An area of strength for upper elementary students is in online bullying. 86% respond favorably (meaning it is unlikely that they will be bullied online). An area for growth is in respect, as only 46% of students respond positively to a question regarding how often people are treated disrespectfully. Our Latinx students, who score near the district average in school connectedness, respond positively at lower rates for school safety (56% compared to an average of 64%). In grades 6-8, 58% of students responded positively on school safety, scoring in the 50th percentile. Pacific Islander students scored below the average at 48%, with Japanese students reporting the highest response at 68%. Areas of strength and growth at our middle schools mirror those from 3rd-5th graders, with 81% responding positively regarding online bullying and 32% responding positively to the question regarding disrespect. 2) These results indicate that while our focus on PBIS and SEL has been successful, we need to better facilitate our students’ transition to middle school to ensure they maintain the feelings of connectedness that will ensure student success. Continued focus on our Latinx students, to foster their feelings of safety at school, are essential in order to close the learning gap. 3) In addition to allowing us to monitor students’ growth along a wide variety of measures, Panorama also provides lesson plans for teachers to use to address any areas of need. Next steps for the school district include training teachers in the use of the Panorama data and resources to better meet our students’ needs.  Providing PD on the use of the resources will enable teachers to design targeted instruction focused on building students’ SEL skills, leading improved school climate and student achievement. In addition, an increased focus on restorative justice will enable all students to feel connected and safe at school.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
01751190000000|Sunol Glen Unified|6|As Sunol Glen is a very small school, serving only 290 K-8 grade students, we have created our own survey to administer to our 6-8 grade students each year in regards to their input and feelings about school.  We administer the survey during school time so that we can have input from 95-100% of our students participate.  In our most recent survey, students reported at 96% that they feel safe at school.  In regards to students' feelings of being connected to the school, 92% responded that they did feel connected or a strong connection to school.  This is also demonstrated by our attendance rate - we had 96% average daily attendance and less than 1% of chronic absenteeism.   We had 0 students drop out of middle school and less than 3% of our students were suspended throughout the year with zero expulsions.   The Sunol Glen staff has adopted several initiatives to address the climate of our school and the high priority of having our students feel safe and connected while they are in school.  These initiatives include a Kindness campaign that goes on throughout the school year and is highlighted during the week of February 10-14.  Additionally, we have adopted the precepts of Mindfulness and the Growth Mindset whereby we encourage students to be reflective and resilient.  Most recently, our school has engaged in a school-wide initiative of Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) including doing a school-wide writing prompts each week addressing an area of social-emotional growth.  We also participate in the national Red Ribbon Week and Anti-Bullying campaigns during the month of October.  All of these programs and initiatives are demonstrative of the LEA's prioritization of student engagement.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49709614930350|Sunridge Charter|6|Data:  5th and 7th graders respond annually to a survey regarding school safety and connectedness.  This information was provided to faculty (April 4 & 11, 2019) and the Charter Council (March 12 & April 9, 2019).  100% of 5th and 7th graders reported they feel safe at school. 96% of 5th and 85% of 7th graders reported they "have good friends at school".  89% if 5th and 85% if 7th graders reported: "I am a valued part of my class". 100% of 5th and 95% of 7th graders reported they "know who to go to for help if I or someone else is being bullied or hurt at school". Meaning:  SunRidge continues to provide the benefits of a small school environment with attention to class meetings, playground supervision, buddy classes between older and younger grades, and support for conflict resolution and behavior management based on TRIBES and other social-emotional curriculum and practices.  Parents are informed when students are sent to the office for a behavior referral. Use:  The faculty and charter council is reviewing the discipline policy for the purpose of clarifying use and updating procedures.  The faculty is considering professional development that would help achieve the goal of unifying language school-wide regarding student support, behavior management and discipline.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
43104390124065|Sunrise Middle|6|School climate is gauged in the Healthy Kids Survey by examining student responses to questions in three categories:  School Engagement and Supports, School Safety, and Substance Use and Mental Health.  Across the three categories, students respond to prompts that probe nuances of student views in each area.  These responses are aggregated into a total of 23 response categories.  Sunrise collected responses from sixth, seventh and eighth graders.  The school is located in an impoverished neighborhood populated largely by immigrants of Hispanic background.  Most parents have a high school education or less. There is substantial homogeneity among students. 93% of Sunrise students are of mixed race.  91% are of Hispanic ethnicity.  76% speak Spanish at home.  56% are English language proficient and 44% are not proficient.  89% are Free and Reduced Price Lunch eligible.  The percentage of students responding affirmatively across the grades in the 23 response categories is as follows. Category:  School Engagement and Supports.  Feel school connectedness: 62%. Feel academically motivated:  86%. Were chronically truant: 0.66%. Feel caring adult relationships:  75%. Feel high expectations:  84%.  Feel participation is meaningful: 44%.  Facilities are kept up: 37%.  Parents are involved in school, 83%.  Category:  School Safety.  School safe or very safe:  72%.  Experienced harassment or bullying: 37%.  Had mean rumors or lies spread about you: 53%.  Been afraid of being beaten up:  18%.  Been in a physical fight:  19%.  Seen a weapon on campus:  24%.  Category:  Substance Use and Mental Health.  Currently use alcohol or drugs:  10%.  Currently use marijuana:  3%.  Been drunk or high at school 7 or more times:  5%.  Currently smoke cigarettes:  3%.  Currently use electronic cigarettes:  8%.  Have experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness:  36%.  Have considered suicide:  26%.  Meaning of results:  The data supplied by the Healthy Kids Survey are instructive but must also be viewed with some caution.  Spot checks with students after they responded to the survey revealed that, in many cases, the students did not understand at least some of the questions.  This is understandable given that nearly half of the students are not fluent in English.  Informally, we tried simplifying the language contained in some of the questions and administered the survey to a set of our students.  Response differences were large enough in some areas to suggest that we need to look at indicators in addition to the Healthy Kids Survey to gain an accurate perspective on student views.  Despite the language problem, the survey does suggest areas of strength and weakness.  Among the school’s strengths are that students feel motivated, that they feel adults have high expectations for them, that adults show that they care for the students, that their parents are involved with the school, and that they see the school as safe.|2019-10-14|Among the school’s weaknesses are instilling a sense of meaningful involvement, students experiencing harassment and bullying, weapons on campus, and students using drugs, and alcohol and smoking.  Also of concern is the percentage of students experiencing emotional problems.  The school is addressing these concerns.  Meaningful involvement has been increased by enhancing the role of student government in steering the direction of the school.   Students, for example, initiated the effort to power the school with solar panels.  Students set the theme around which learning will occur in the summer program.  Students have been trained in anti-harassment and anti-bullying interventions and act as leaders in diminishing all types of confrontations.  They are learning negotiation techniques as part of this campaign.  The school is a safe haven.  Presence of weapons is not allowed.  The school took the rare action of asking one student to leave after he ignored repeated warnings against bringing weapons to school.  To address substance abuse, the school joined the State’s Tobacco Use and Prevention Program.  Students learn effects of substance abuse.  The school is a non-smoking, non-vaping space.  To address emotional distress, the school has adopted Multi-Tiered Systems of Support, a broad program in which each student’s levels of stress across multiple domains are assessed and services that directly address the student’s needs are provided.|Met|2019
19647336019392|Superior Street Elementary|6|-Survey participation rates for students was 99 % -Superior were perceived to be a safe place by at least 87% of students -The percentage rate of superior students reporting being happy at school were 87%  -82% of superior students reported feeling like they are part of their school Superior is currently a Leader in Me School. The Leader in Me is Franklin Covey’s whole school transformation process. It teaches 21st century leadership and life skills to students and creates a culture of student empowerment based on the idea that every child can be a leader.The Leader in Me is aligned with best-in-class content and concepts practiced by global education thought leaders. It provides a logical, sequential and balanced process to help schools proactively design the culture that reflects their vision of the ideal school.Content from The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People is a key component of the overall The Leader in Me process. The 7 Habits is a synthesis of universal, timeless principles of personal and interpersonal effectiveness, such as responsibility, vision, integrity, teamwork, collaboration and renewal, which are common to all people and cultures. Instead of seeing children through the lens of a normal distribution curve, at Superior, we believe in The Leader in Me paradigm that every child is capable of being a leader. This paradigm changes everything. We further believe that it will be our honor and mission to help each student find their leadership potential. Superior Street Elementary is proud to be one of over 2,000 public, private, charter and magnet schools across 35 countries to have adopted The Leader in Me process.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
25658960000000|Surprise Valley Joint Unified|6|Surprise Valley Joint Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in 2017-2018. Results serve to measure the district’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate. Because of the re-calibration of norms by WestEd, the survey developer, overall results for 2018 cannot be compared to those reported in 2016.  Overall district School Climate Index:  Based on the Healthy Kids Survey give in fall of 2017, 83% of students feel safe at school. 98% of parents on the ES site survey felt that school was a safe place for their child and 95% of parents felt that their child had at least one adult that their child was connected to at school. New baseline should be 90% of students should feel safe at school.  A new survey will be given in the fall of 2019.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
18641960000000|Susanville Elementary|6|Data:   Utilizing the Parent results from the CA Healthy Kids Survey, 76% of parents feel welcome to participate at their child's school. 77% of parents that responded to the survey indicated that they had attended a school or class event. 70% indicated that they had attended a regularly scheduled parent-teacher conference with their child's teacher. 71% of parents felt that the school kept them well-informed about school activities. 79% of parents felt that their child's school provides a learning environment that is supportive and inviting. 67% of our parents indicated that their child's school has adults that really care about students. 72% of parents indicated that school is a safe place for students. Meaning:  While these numbers are positive overall, they have dropped from the previous school year.  The minor drop in ratings has come with a drop in parent participation on the survey.  The District is collecting more information via online surveys and parents are being asked to engage more than they have in the past.  For some, this have resulted in communication overload.   Use:  The District will need to work to better engage parents with the most important data collection points and ensure that we are receiving input on the most important factors in our district.  Parent committee groups have been working to better engage stakeholders in "meaningful parent engagement" while providing information in a variety of ways to reach the most people.  Engaged parents with a positive outlook towards their child's school set a good example for their children to view school in the same way.|2019-03-20|The CA Healthy Kids Survey was administered to parents, staff and students in the fall of 2018. In the Middle School results, 85% of students reported that there were caring adults in the school; 73% reported feeling connected to the school; 85% of students reported that there were caring adults in the school and 90% of students reported that the school motivated them academically. In the Elementary Grade results, 72% of students reported that there were caring adults in the school; 70% reported feeling connected to the school, 71% of students reported that there were caring adults in the school and 86% of the students reported that the school motivated them academically. 93% of Elementary Students and 89% of Middle School students reported feeling safe at school.|Met|2019
51105120000000|Sutter County Office of Education|6|Feather River Academy (FRA) administers the Healthy Kids Survey every other year. The 18-19 school year was a survey administration year.  This data will be used in conversations among staff in order to address any concerns the data brought that relates to FRA policies.  Through many meetings with students and parents, it has been shared that students and families feel that FRA is a safe, caring school where the staff works hard for our students. FRA staff will focus on the social awareness and use multiple MTSS resources on-site or in the community top help students navigate their world. This will be an ongoing effort.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
51714230132977|Sutter Peak Charter Academy|6|Annually, Sutter Peak Charter Academy Surveys all stakeholders, including its K-12 students. A majority of the questions in the surveys are directly aligned to the 8 Basic State Priorities including school climate. Data from the survey and stakeholders meetings are reviewed and discussed. High priority status pertaining to student performance, attendance, school facilities, and school climate and course offerings are taken regarding the school’s needs and areas for growth. This information is compiled and the district LCAP is written based from these identified needs. The final plan is provided to the Board of Directors for approval at a regularly scheduled Board meeting in June. Satisfaction at Sutter Peak Charter is above 95% for parents, students and staff. Even with a high satisfaction rate, SPCA is constantly trying new and innovative ways to serve students over six counties.  Most recently Sutter Peak purchased a mobile lending library.  This library is driven to multiple counties weekly offering textbooks, computers, and Lexile leveled readers for all students.  The goal of the lending library is to provide greater access to a variety of resources to all students. Sutter Peak is also piloting a new weekly email distributed through the all school communication system, PowerSchool.  "Sutter Peak this Week" will be distributed automatically to every family on Sunday evenings.  Sutter Peak this Week ensures that all students have access to information in a timely manner.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
51714490000000|Sutter Union High|6|Sutter Union High School is in the beginning stages of administrating surveys to provide a basis for formal stakeholder analysis of our school climate.  The current process, which has been continuous for the past 30 years, was based on frequent, formal and informal interactions between the school, students, parents and community stakeholders.  The school has an open door policy for addressing concerns and implementing change when needed to improve the school’s learning environment.  Sutter Union High School has the reputation for providing a safe clean campus where all staff is dedicated to goal of connecting all students to their education through quality first instructional practices, a wide variety of course offerings, rich extra and co-curricular activities designed to develop character and community service.  The school currently has an inter-district enrollment rate of 50% and has a waiting list of students wishing to enroll.|2019-10-08|Sutter Union High School is committed to on-going improvement of School Climate and is aware that transitioning to a more formal evaluation process will only help to further strengthen the district's academic programs.|Met|2019
37771070136473|Sweetwater Secondary|6|SSS administers an Annual LCAP Stakeholder Engagement Survey to students and parents to measure perceptions on conditions of learning, student outcomes, and engagement. Over the last five years, survey results indicate that the number one key requirement of students and parents is a safe and supportive learning environment. This requirement has directly impacted the development of SSS’s LCAP. In order to monitor the success of SSS’s LCAP Goal 4: Provide a Safe Environment and Supportive School Culture, SSS has established a metric of maintain or achieve a 90% or higher safety satisfaction rating. In 2018-2019, SSS exceeded this metric. 98% of students reported that they felt safe at SSS and 100% of parents reported that they feel their child is safe at SSS. Additionally, the school establishes metrics for suspension and expulsion rates to reflect the effectiveness of the school’s Multi-Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS) that incorporates academic, social/emotional, and behavioral supports and interventions. In 2018-2019 SSS’s suspension rates are 0.2% and expulsion rates are 0%. These metrics indicate that students’ needs are being met in a positive and supportive learning environment that protects their participation and engagement in school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
37684110000000|Sweetwater Union High|6|We implemented two different surveys during the 2018-19 school year.  We administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (10,870 responses) for students in Grades 7, 9, and 11.  We also offered  the CORE Social Emotional Learning (SEL) Survey (12,958 responses) to students in grades 7-12.  Highlights from the surveys are as follows: California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) Overall our students had slightly more negative views of their school experience in 2018-19 when compared with 2016-17. For example, to the comment, “Adults at this school encourage me to work hard so I can be successful in college or on the job I choose”, the percent of students who agreed or strongly agreed decreased for all grade levels.  7th grade decreased from 70% to 62%.  9th grade decreased from 58% to 56% and 11th grade decreased from 59% to 56%.  However, a  majority of students in every grade level agreed with this statement, “Adults in this school respect differences in students”.  7th grade (60%), 9th Grade (51%) and 11th grade (53%) responded favorably to this comment.     CORE SEL Survey We received perspectives from students in grades 6-12 which showed the following:  For questions related to the topic of Knowledge and Fairness of Rules, students responded more favorably, especially in high school. Some student groups improved significantly, most notably African American students in high school who increased their favorable responses from 60% to 75%.  Hispanic students increased the favorable rating from 64% to 70% and White students increased from 64% to 72%.   In Middle School, the results were mostly flat with the exception of Students with Disabilities who declined from 71% to 64%.   On the topic of School Connectedness Middle school students responded with a slight decline of favorable responses from 67% to 62%, while gaps between most student groups remained static.  In High School, School Connectedness was mostly flat and gaps remained static with the exception of African American students who responded favorably 53% of the time, about 6% below the average for all students. These data show both positive and negative trends and require that our school sites dig deeper into analysis as they design their school improvement plans.  Many of our staff have engaged in Restorative Practice training to help foster an approach that is fair and supportive.  Three signature practices of school and class behavior include the use of a welcoming ritual,  engaging practices, and an optimistic closure.  We will need to constantly inquire as to the effectiveness of our efforts and include student voice in our needs assessment and root cause analysis as we did in our work for schools requiring Comprehensive School Improvement and Targeted School Improvement.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
33751760120204|Sycamore Academy of Science and Cultural Arts|6|Sycamore Academy administers a local survey to the parents/guardians of students in all grades, TK-8. The key findings from the parent survey related to seeking input from parents in the school decision making indicate that 59% (an increase over last year) of the parents surveyed indicated that they plan on being involved in school wide decision making. The results demonstrate that the large majority of parents want to provide input and participate in school events and activities where only about 53% (an increase over last year) of our population want to be involved in developing the LCAP or reviewing finances. Sycamore Academy chooses to administer a customized survey on a yearly basis. The intention of the survey is to address topics that are of a real concern to the students and parents of Sycamore Academy. The survey is discussed and modified as needed by the School Site Council which is made up of 50% parents and 50% staff. All of the questions are designed to help develop the LCAP and determine goals, targets and training for the school in the upcoming school year. The questions are all in alignment with the State Priorities and our Local Control and Accountability Plan. Sycamore Academy has identified the need to improve in engaging underrepresented families and will do so by offering services such as: transportation, home visits, multiple meeting times and virtual meeting options.|2019-10-30|Sycamore Academy has annually provided a survey to all parents and students in grades TK-8 in order to determine stakeholder perception regarding the school’s social climate, academic effectiveness and communication. The results indicate an overall positive school climate, resulting in a student re-enrollment rate of 97%. Over 90% of the parents that responded to the survey say that they feel welcome by the staff and the teacher to participate in their child’s classroom. Over 90% of the parents feel the school is providing enough options for effective communication with families and are very happy with the variety of ways in which the school communicates with parents, providing an option that fits every household. Over 85% of the students surveyed feel that the teacher gives timely feedback that helps them to achieve academically and over 90% of the students feel that the teachers are willing to make time to give the help that students need, academically, socially and emotionally. Sycamore Academy has identified the need to improve in engaging underrepresented families and will do so by offering services such as: transportation, home visits, multiple meeting times and virtual meeting options|Met|2019
54105460125542|Sycamore Valley Academy|6|Since Blue Oak Academy served only students in grades K-3 during the 2018-2019 school year, the student population was too young to receive the California Healthy Kids Survey as the survey is only administered to students in grades 5, 8, 10.  During the 2019-2020 school year, Blue Oak Academy is comprised of students in grades K-4. A local survey will be developed and administered for fourth grade students.|2019-09-19||Met|2019
19647331938554|Sylmar Charter High|6|Sylmar Charter High school administered the 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey during the spring semester to 9th- 12th graders.  The participation rate for this survey was 86%.  The following are the questions that pertain to school climate:  Data: "I am happy to be at this school" 74% "I feel accepted for who I am at this school" 77% "There are lots of chances for students at my school to get involved in school activities outside of class"  88% "I feel safe in this school" 70% " If I told a teacher or other adult at this school that another student was bullying me, he or she would try to help me." -78% "Rules at this school are made clear to students" 79%  Meaning:  Sylmar Charter High School has continued to provide a safe and welcoming environment for students. Sylmar encourages students to get involved in extracurricular activities such as sports, clubs, and courses that will assist students to recover credits or advance in credits.  Overall, students at Sylmar are accepting of each others cultural differences and personal choices.  Students are able to confide in teachers and support staff, when in need.  Overall, students know the school rules and follow them and behave based on behavior expectations.  Use:  Sylmar Charter High School will continue to use the See something, Say something" in order for students to report anything that they feel should be address anonymously.  Sylmar Charter High School will continue to provide three additional Campus Aides in order to provide a safe environment for students.  Sylmar Charter High School hired a full time Restorative Justice Adviser that is helping students resolve conflicts before they escalade.  Teachers are implementing Restorative circles in class as a preventive measure.  We are also organizing a team comprised of teachers and support staff, to be fully prepared to implement the Restorative Justice practices.  Overall, these strategies and tools have increased school safety and worked to keep students happy, safe and learning during the time they are here to learn.|2019-10-22|Sylmar Charter High school continues to improve school climate for students.  Sylmar Charter High School's Associated Student Body (ASB) organizes lunch time pep rallies, activities, and performances to keep students engaged and attending school.  They also organize dances and activities outside of school hours to keep students participating and engaged at school, to make it not only a safe learning place, but a place where they are free to express themselves while socializing with their peers.  Survey data indicates that we maintain a welcoming environment where students feel safe and and believe that adults are caring. A high percentage are "happy" to be at school.|Met|2019
50712900000000|Sylvan Union Elementary|6|The Marzano Family, Student and Staff Surveys and Staff Collective Efficacy Survey completed in February 2019 provided us with school climate data on safe and orderly school environments and student connectedness. Scores are reported on a scale of 1-5, 1 being Strongly Disagree and 5 being Strongly Agree.  Safe and Orderly School Environments: Student: 4.03 My school is a safe place 3.94 My school is an orderly place 4.51 I know what to do if an emergency happens at school (such as a fire or lock down) Staff: 4.16 The faculty and staff perceive the school environment as safe and orderly 4.00 The success of the whole school, as well as individuals within the school, is appropriately acknowledged Family: 4.19 My child’s school is a safe place 4.14 My child’s school is an orderly place  Student connectedness to school. Students: Scores are reported on a scale of 1-5, 1 being Strongly Disagree and 5 being Strongly Agree. 2.65  My school’s leaders ask for my opinion about how the school should function 3.15 When I achieve a goal or accomplish something important, my school’s leaders, my teachers, and other students celebrate it Staff: Staff took a Collective Efficacy survey reported on a scale of 1-6, 1 being Strongly Disagree and 6 being Strongly Agree 4.66 Teachers here are confident they will be able to motivate their students 5.08 Teachers in this school believe that every child can learn  We know that students who feel connected to school believe that adults in the school care about their learning as well as them as individuals. School staff need to have high academic expectations and rigor with support for learning, as well as positive adult/student relationships in a physical and emotionally safe environment. Connections with students spring from individual action on the part of the adults on school campuses as well as the school environment. Analysis of these survey results provided us with new knowledge. Every child should feel successful at school. Overall, students, families and staff all strongly agree that our schools are safe and orderly. The student survey results showed us that we need to celebrate students’ successes more overtly. There is a discrepancy of what students and staff believe regarding belief in levels of school connectedness. In 2018-2019, all staff was be trained on social and emotional learning as well as trauma-informed practices to support students and strive to increase the level of connectedness that students have at school. Each middle school has a WEB (Where Everyone Belongs) program to engage students in school. Schoolwide assemblies may also focus on empowering and engaging students to create a positive environment. In 2019-2020 all school sites have implemented Social Emotional Learning curriculum.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
19647330106427|Synergy Charter Academy|6|Synergy administered the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey and reviewed scores as part of the School Climate Index. To measure students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness, Synergy looked at student scores compared to the state average in the areas of School Connectedness, Caring Relationships, High Expectations, and Meaningful Participation. SCA students responded at rates equal to or higher than state averages in these areas.   Key findings on the 2018-19 CHKS show a strong majority of students who responded said they felt connected to school, nearly three-quarters report they feel safe at school, and almost all feel motivated academically. While these results indicate that the academic culture of the school is very strong, the school will continue to reinforce clear expectations for student behavior through the Synergy Scholar Lessons and in the  2019-20 school year will implement a “Scholar Dollars” program to reinforce positive schoolwide behavior amongst all students in all school settings. Additionally, the school will make an effort to increase the student response rate on the CHKS to get a more representative sample.|2019-09-14||Met|2019
19647330117895|Synergy Kinetic Academy|6|Synergy administered the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey and reviewed scores as part of the School Climate Index. To measure students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness, Synergy looked at student scores compared to the state average in the areas of School Connectedness, Caring Relationships, High Expectations, and Meaningful Participation. SKA students responded at rates about equal to state averages in all areas, except lower than average for Meaningful Participation.   Key findings on the 2018-19 CHKS show a strong majority of students who responded report they feel connected to the school and feel safe at school, and three-quarters feel motivated academically. In reviewing the results, we see the highest rates of school connectedness, perceived school safety, and academic motivation among 6th graders, and the lowest rates among 8th graders. The school will continue to reinforce positive school culture through the Synergy Scholar Lessons and incentives such as “Scholar Dollars.” The results also reveal a difference in academic motivation between female and male students, showing female students report higher rates of academic motivation. The school will continue to provide school counseling support and mentorship programs to support students both academically and social-emotionally.|2019-09-14||Met|2019
19647330124560|Synergy Quantum Academy|6|Synergy administered the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey and reviewed scores as part of the School Climate Index. To measure students’ perceptions of school safety and connectedness, Synergy looked at student scores compared to the state average in the areas of School Connectedness, Caring Relationships, High Expectations, and Meaningful Participation. SQA students responded about equal to state averages in all areas, except higher than average for Caring Relationships.  Key findings on the 2018-19 CHKS show that the majority of students who responded report they feel connected to the school and feel safe at school, and nearly two-thirds feel motivated academically. In reviewing the results, we see differences between female and male students, with male students reporting higher rates of school connectedness and perceived safety, while female students report higher rates of academic motivation. The school will continue to provide school counseling support and mentorship programs to support students both academically and social-emotionally|2019-09-14||Met|2019
19647331938612|Taft Charter High|6|Taft through LAUSD administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the fall semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate:  • School Experience Survey participation rates for students was 65%. • The percentage rates of middle and high school students reporting being happy at school were 75%. Sixty-eight percent of our students reported feeling like they are part of their school. • Taft is perceived to be a safe place by at least 85% of students. • When students were asked if adults treated them with respect, 80% replied in the affirmative.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
15638000000000|Taft City|6|The LEA administers a local climate survey every year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness by administering the California Healthy Kids Survey to 7th grade students, and reports the results to its local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting of the local governing board and to stakeholders and the public through the Dashboard as follows:  The California Healthy Kids Survey was most recently administered in 2018-19 to TCSD 7th grade students who had parental permission to participate. The California Healthy Kids Survey will be administered again in 2018-19 to TCSD 7th grade students who have parental permission to participate. The Summary of Key Indicators of the California Healthy Kids Survey 2015-16 are listed below:  School Engagement and Supports  School Connectedness    57% Academic Motivation    73% Chronic truancy (twice a month or more)3% Caring adult relationships          64% High expectations     78% Meaningful participation (high)  22% Facilities Upkeep     26% Parent involvement in school   56% School Safety   School perceived as very safe or safe  60%  Experienced any harassment or bullying 37%  Had mean rumors or lies spread about you 48%  Been afraid of being beaten up   19%  Been in a physical fight            24%  Seen a weapon on campus    22% Substance Use and Mental Health  Current alcohol or drug use    12% Current marijuana use     5% Current binge drinking            3% Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times  1% Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 2% Current cigarette smoking    1% Current electronic cigarette use   8% Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 33% Considered suicide             16%  The district has reflected on the key learnings from the CHKS and contemplates what the disaggregated results of the survey reveal about schools in TCSD including areas of strength or growth, challenges, and barriers. As a result, TCSD makes decisions based on the data for continuous improvement purposes.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
36678760126706|Taft T. Newman Leadership Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
15638180000000|Taft Union High|6|Taft Union High School administers a survey to all parents and reports to the governing board annually.  The survey is sent home electronically through our Aeries Communication so it can be translated and paper versions are available at the school, during DELAC, School Site Council and Migrant Education meetings.  The key findings were that 78% of parents believe they are a partner with the school in educating their students.  78% of students feel safe at school. 46% still say bullying is a problem which is slightly less than last year where 50% of students reported students were bullied.  TUHSD has implemented the Sandy Hook Promise Say Something Anonymous Reporting System (SS-ARS) to provide students a reporting platform that is available 24/7/365 and access to a crisis counselor.  TUHS Human Element class also continues to work on culture through school team-building activities and often partners with ASB students and the S-Club is implementing the Know the Signs program.  BVHS continues to implement PBIS on their campus.  There is a growing need for social-emotional support for students and the district is currently looking to address these needs with support for teachers and students.  The District is working with Kern County Behavioral Health to provide mental health services for students on site.  Select teachers will be using Prepare U software and mental health curriculum to foster emotional support and resilience in students.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
31669440000000|Tahoe-Truckee Unified|6|A High-Reliability Schools (HRS) Level 1 survey for parents, teachers, administrators, and students was created with Google Forms. Surveys were administered once for teachers and administrators and once in the spring for parents. Survey results provide a way to monitor progress toward HRS Level 1: Safe, Supportive, and Collaborative Environment. Results were anonymous, collected, and provided to each school for analysis and action.  District results were also compiled and provided information to inform progress and possible next steps.  Either through construction or general maintenance, all school areas in need of repair have been addressed or will be completed via the facilities construction process.  Level 1 Parent surveys were administered this spring with ten common districtwide questions. Over 800 parents responded to this survey. Since this is the first year of this revised survey, it's a baseline year.  Overall parents responded in 9 of the ten areas with high percentages of Strongly Agree/Agree (above 80%).  At the elementary level, all ten areas were ranked high: seven areas at or above 90% of parents responding with Strongly Agree/Agree, and the other three areas, 87%+ of parents responding with Strongly Agree/Agree.  Possible new action:  The Annual Parent Survey may be administered in the winter. Results will be analyzed at a district and school level. Actions to sustain/improve in identified areas will be implemented, as appropriate. As a result of survey comments received from parents this past year, survey results and any accompanying actions will now be shared with stakeholders.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
21654820000000|Tamalpais Union High|6|TUHSD administers the California Healthy Kids survey every 2 years, as well as a local survey, which was administered in October 2018 most recently. Additionally, the District issued a short survey to parents asking them to identify priorities they feel the District should have. Using the data from the results of both surveys the District has reflected on practices and programs that help students feel connected and cared for. As means of increasing connectedness, the District has continued its support of the Counseling and Wellness centers. Each comprehensive campus has a Counseling and Wellness Center that provides ongoing support for students, conducts meaningful activities at lunch and in the evenings to educate parents and students and provides access to outside resources that we may not offer. Additionally, each school site has increased their efforts to engage parents through visits into our communities, parent education events and more opportunties for parents to participate in decision making processes around site specific issues.   From our California Healthy Kids Survey we learned that: 62% of 9th graders and 74% of 11th graders who participated reported feeling they there were adults on campus who showed genuine care for them  76% of 9th graders and 79% of 11 graders who participated reported feeling their were adults on campus who believed they could be successful  77% of 9th graders and 80% of 11th graders who participated reported there was at least 1 adult on campus who truly listens to them  However, our African American students reported feeling less safe on campus in 11th grade than they had felt in 9th grade. Our African American students also reported the highest rates of harassment or bullying due to race, religion, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, or able status.   These data are encouraging in some ways and very disappointing in other. We believe we have much more work to do. We would like all students to feel connected and cared for. Some steps the District has taken are: 1. Implemented the Students Organized for Anti-Racism program that includes 80 students and 10 adults across the District working collaboratively to disrupt racism on campuses and improve the overall campus climate and culture. The students and adults in this program provide educational experiences on racial consciousness to other staff and students.  2. Developed the Success Network at Tam High to ensure students who are struggling and may not have proper support are connection to resources and set up with an on-site mentor in order to feel more connected to school 3. Provided professional development in racial consciousness, culturally responsive practices and restorative justice practices.  4. Supported the development of faculty of color group who meet 2 times a year to identify supports they wish to have and to share ways in which the District can be supportive and more inclusive.|2019-11-06||Met|2019
36675870128462|Taylion High Desert Academy/Adelanto|6|Taylion High Desert Academy provides an annual School Climate survey for all stakeholders (Parents, Students, Staff, and Community Members). Students are able to provide their feedback on all programs: Academic, Activities, Events, Staff, LCAP, etc. They are also welcomed to attend school council meetings and provide one-on-one feedback with staff members. Overall, 98% of students feel welcomed and connected at school. 98% of students shared - My teacher gives me individual attention when I need it. 94% of students stated - I feel successful while attending Taylion. 99% shared - My teacher helps me to gain confidence in my ability to learn. These results and others are shared with staff, board, and community members.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
19647330122242|TEACH Academy of Technologies|6|Findings reported: SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 6-8 2018-19: Youth Truth Student Survey was administered. This survey measures 5 categories and results are as follows: • Engagement: 60% • Academic Rigor: 73% • Relationships: 57% • Belonging & Peer Collaboration: 53% • Culture: 48% The principal and school staff will research an effective evidence-based student survey to implement in Spring 2020 as required by the LCAP and ensure a high student participation rate.|2019-09-25||Met|2019
19647330138305|TEACH Preparatory Mildred S. Cunningham & Edith H. Morris Elementary|6|Findings reported: A total of 34 students in grade 2 were surveyed, a 100% participation rate, using a research-based survey.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  Our school administered the U.S. Prep Student Perception Survey to gather input and feedback from students on our school’s program, and their experiences.  • 91% of students surveyed agreed that students treat teachers with respect, look, listen and follow directions always/sometimes.  • 82% of students surveyed agreed that their classmates behave the way the teacher wants them to always/sometimes.  • 91% of students surveyed agreed our class stays busy and doesn’t waste time always/sometimes. • 100% of students surveyed agreed that “we learn a lot almost every day, always/sometimes.  • 94% of students surveyed agreed that the teacher cares about me always/sometimes. • 91% of students surveyed agreed that the teacher knows what is important to me.   The principal and school staff will utilize the results of the student survey as a baseline to improve school connectedness, schoolwide support services, and communication, support a positive school climate, and strengthen delivery and accountability of its character development/core values.  In addition, the administrative team will work diligently to implement a research-based student survey in Spring 2020 as required by the LCAP.|2019-09-25||Met|2019
19647330129627|TEACH Tech Charter High|6|Findings reported: SURVEY FINDINGS: GRADES 9-12 2018-19: Youth Truth Student Survey was administered. This survey measures 5 categories and results are as follows: • Engagement: 73% • Academic Rigor: 78% • Relationships: 70% • Belonging & Peer Collaboration: 58% • Culture: 47% • College & Career Readiness: 57% The principal and school staff will research an effective evidence-based student survey to implement in Spring 2020 as required by the LCAP and ensure high student participation rate.|2019-09-25||Met|2019
39686760124958|TEAM Charter|6|TEAM Charter School administered the Leader in Me Survey to students grades 3-8. The findings were that 65% of our students felt like they have leadership opportunities, the school culture feels safe and inviting, and they feel like they are active participants in the school and classrooms. The results show a strength in the area of Leadership with over half our students feeling like they have opportunities to lead. An area for growth is that only a little over half of our students feel that our culture is safe and inviting and have rigorous academics. The data was used by a leadership team of teachers to identify ways that our schools can build student voice in the schools. and implement social emotional training for staff members. A school wide focus for the 2018-19 school year has been "Building Relationships and Building Community". At TEAM Charter School K-5, we are introducing community circles in each class room and staff meeting for 2018-2019 school year. Staff will receive training on Social Emotional Learning practices.|2019-05-13||Met|2019
39686760136283|Team Charter Academy|6|The 2019-2020 Leader in Me MRA was given in the Fall 2019 to obtain baseline data for the middle school. The previous year results were coupled with the elementary school. The MRA measures three areas of school climate: Leadership, Academics and Culture. The survey was given to staff, students and parents. The results are as follows: Leadership-78% of teachers feel socially and emotionally ready to teach, 56% of students feel that there are opportunities for leadership, and 74% of parents feel like there are opportunities for parental involvement; Culture-53% of the staff feel like there is a supportive environment, 46% of the students feel engaged at school, and 66% of the staff feel satisfied with their environment; Academics-70% of the staff feel confident in teacher efficacy, 60% of students feel like they are the leader of their own achievement, and an average of 11% of our students are proficient in ELA and Math.|2019-05-13|TCA is in its third year of operation with a high transition rate of administrators and teaching staff in the  first two years or existence. TCA has focused on getting a highly qualified staff, state adopted, core-aligned curricula, and professional learning to increase a positive school climate.|Met|2019
15638260000000|Tehachapi Unified|6|Data:The Tehachapi Unified School District utilizes the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to assess the local climate in terms of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness The CHKS is administered once per year to students in 5th - 9th, and 11th grades. Overall scores for student perception of school connectedness : Tehachapi High School (THS):43% (up from 31%) of  participants reported a high feeling of school connectedness; Jacobsen Middle School (JMS ): 45% (up from 44%) of  participants reported a high feeling of school contentedness; Cummings Valley Elementary School (CV): 68% (up from 59%) of participants reported a high feeling of  school  contentedness;  Golden  Hills  Elementary  School  (GH):  74% (up from 70%) of participants reported a high feeling of school connectedness; and Tompkins Elementary School (TE): 66% (up from 53%) of participants reported a high feeling of school connectedness; Overall scores for student perception of school safety: THS: 39% (down from 47%) of participants reported feeling safe or very safe  at  school most of the time; JMS: 40% (down from 55%) of participants reported feeling safe or very safe at school most of the time; CV: 72% (down from 90%) of participants reported feeling safe at school "most of the time" or "all of the time" in the past 12 months ; GH: 75% (down from 84%) of participants reported feeling  safe at school  "most  of  the time"  or "all  of  the time" in the past 12 months; and TE: 68% (up from 67%) of  participants  reported feeling  safe at school "most  of  the time"  or "all of  the time" in the past  12 months. Overall scores for student experiences with harassment or bullying: THS: 29% (up from 22%) of participants reported having experienced any harassment or bullying  in the past 12 months; JMS : 39% (up from 32%) of participants reported having experienced any harassment or bullying in the past 12 months; CV: 42% (down from 45%) of participants reported being hit or pushed, 48% (up from 45%) of participants reported having had mean rumors spread about them, and 53% (up from 35%) of participants reported being called names or having jokes made about them; GH: 40% (no % change) of participants reported being hit or pushed, 53% (up from 50%) of participants reported having had mean rumors spread about them, and 49% (no % change) of participants reported being called names or having jokes made about them; and TE: 58% (down from 72%) of participants reported being hit or pushed, 56% (down from 58%) of participants reported having had mean rumors spread about them, and 65% (down from 69%) of participants reported being called names or having jokes made about them.  Meaning: The disaggregated results reveal that there is an overall drop in  perceived school safety in TUSD schools. School  safety is an area of challenge for TUSD at this time.  USE: Actions are being implemented such as security cameras and improved lighting, vape sensors, PBIS, SRO, ATS, and more|2019-10-22|Many actions are being implemented to increase security and the well being and safety of our schools, students, and families.  Alternative to Suspension (ATS) trainings  to improve suspendable behaviors at the middle and high school, Campus security cameras at the high school, Vape Detectors for the restrooms are being researched, Campus Supervisor trainings have been implemented. At all sites district wide PBIS & Restorative Practices are used, Social Media Safety Training for students, Safe School Ambassadors program, and new LED lighting has been installed in parking lots. We also have an SRO, and a new Deputy of Security and Truancy who covers all campuses.|Met|2019
52105200000000|Tehama County Department of Education|6|DATA:      ~Student focus groups at Tehama Oaks indicated:      ~ a need for a broad course of study      ~ a need for access to career preparation and planning     ~ general satisfaction with staff and instructional program  MEANING:  Tehama Oaks strengths included a dedicated staff, a safe facility,  an increase in communication between probation staff and instructional staff and growing number of options for students. Barriers include limitations due to student mobility, access to parents and restrictions related to safety.   USE:  Staff at Tehama Oaks are focusing on learning opportunities to better support the changing demographics of the school population. Additionally, staff are using data to increase options for a broad course of study to include career preparation based on student aptitude and interest.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
52105206119671|Tehama eLearning Academy|6|1. Data: Climate Survey in August 2018 and August 2019 demonstrate high levels of feelings of safety and positive school climate. School focus groups of stakeholder groups indicate high levels of satisfaction with the school, staff and curriculum. Students have given feedback on elective classes they would like to participate in and those classes have been offered 2. Meaning: New curriculum is updated, more rigorous, relevant, and challenging More students are participating in a-g and college-prep coursework. Some students report challenges in the high level of rigor and need additional support.  3. Use: Continue to survey and seek feedback from all stakeholders and utilize information gained to make program changes conducive to student learning.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
33103300136168|Temecula International Academy|6|The previous administration felt that the priority of this indicator had not been met and therefore left it blank. In evaluating the climate survey that was presented last June, the current administration has come to the conclusion that specific school strengths and areas for growth can be identified. Survey was last given in November of 2018 and May of 2019. Based on the received feedback, the school will be making revisions, decisions, and actions that benefit our scholars and allow for continuous improvement.  The current administration will work with the faculty/staff in reviewing the data and utilizing it to inform their work in achieving and pursuing current school goals. Data gathered during the current school year will be compared to previous years data to assist the faculty/staff in identifying school trends in relation to enrollment, curriculum, and other school climate areas.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
33751923330917|Temecula Preparatory|6|Local Climate Surveys were sent to staff, students, and parents, in order to ascertain stakeholder perception regarding school culture, safety, instruction, and connectedness.  The survey results are shared with the school’s board of directors each year, and the results indicate an overall positive school climate.    Review of the surveys shows that all stakeholders are satisfied in most areas.  The interpretation provided is based on an average of scores on a scale of 1 to 10 (with 1 being poor and 10 being exceptional).  Parent Results:  Parents indicated overall satisfaction with the school. Areas of strength (average scores of 8 or higher on the survey) include: student safety, rule enforcement, caring staff, quality teachers, parent pride, and school enjoyment.   Areas for growth (scored 7 or lower on the survey) include: None noted at this time  Staff Results: Teachers indicated overall satisfaction with working at TPS. Areas of strength (scored 8 or higher on the survey) include: peer support, administrative support, ability to meet the needs of learners, IT support, and professional development opportunities.   Areas for growth (scored 7 or lower on the survey) include: availability of student performance data.   Student Results: Areas of strength (scored above 7 on the survey) include: student safety, caring staff, quality teachers, academic support, and the fine arts program.   Areas for growth (scored 6 or lower on the survey) include: peer relationships, sports and extracurricular activities, school pride, and student enjoyment.   Based on the results of the survey, the school has prioritized appropriate actions in the Strategic Plan, Action Plan, and LCAP to address areas of growth and continued support of areas of strength.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
33751926112551|Temecula Valley Charter|6|According to its most recent survey results, the Charter reports the following (using a three point rubric, High, Medium, and Low) as strongly occurring: *45% of K-5 and 90% of 6-8 students are regularly connected to the school. *59% of K-5 students and 68% of 6-8 students are regularly academically motivated. Student surveys are administered annually to all students to assess overall school effectiveness, engagement, and connection to the school community.  In SY 19/20, TVCS will again utilize the California Healthy Kids survey to gather additional student feedback.  Students are regularly encouraged to join clubs, intramurals, and extra-curricular activities.  Further, many presentations and assemblies were offered at the Charter including Anti-Bullying; Character Building; Red Ribbon Week; and Mental Health.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
33751920000000|Temecula Valley Unified|6|During the 2018-19 school year, parents, staff, and students completed the Quality Counts survey through K-12 Insight. The purpose of the survey was to gather feedback regarding school climate and to gather input to help inform the LCAP. Positive school climate is an essential component of successful and effective schools. It is defined as shared beliefs, values, and attitudes that shape interactions. The survey addressed these main areas: Basic Services, Implementation of State Standards, Course Access, Student Achievement, Other Student Outcomes, Student Engagement, Parent Involvement, and School Climate. For the statement, “TVUSD students feel safe, respected, and welcomed at school:” 90% of employees, 81% of parents, 66% of students, and 66% of community members agree or strongly agree. For the statement, “Parents, teachers, students, school staff, and community members work together to create a safe, respectful, and inclusive campus:”81% of employees, 80% of parents, 67% of students, and 66% of community members agree or strongly agree. Recognizing that a positive school culture and climate is essential, TVUSD has made both of those areas a district-wide priority to maintain moving forward. New actions and services related to meeting the social and emotional learning needs of TVUSD students have been added each year to the LCAP based on input and feedback from all stakeholders, including social workers and counselors, Tier II Behavior Assistants, a MAPS classrooms, and  LCAP Counselors. Administrators receive monthly professional development that they use in support of continuing to develop their individual school’s climate and culture. During the 2018-19 school year, a survey committee was formed to create mini surveys, which will be sent out during the 2019-20 school year on the topics of vaping, school climate/ connectedness, and school safety.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19650520000000|Temple City Unified|6|Every other year, TCUSD embeds local climate questions in its LCAP survey in order to capture student, parent/guardian, and school personnel perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The District notes responses among stakeholder groups and uses this information to make decisions and implement initiatives related to school climate and safety. Students, parents/guardians, and school level personnel respond to statements about safety, bullying, respect, staff-student connectedness, and encouragement. The responses to these statements on survey were positive:  • 73% of students agreed or strongly agreed that “My school is safe”  • 67% of students agreed or strongly agreed that “My school is proactive about anti-bullying efforts”  • 63% agreed or strongly agreed that “If another student was bullying me, I would feel comfortable telling a teacher or staff member at my school”  • 82% of parents agreed or strongly agreed that “My child’s school is safe”  • 73% agreed or strongly agreed that “My child’s school is proactive about anti-bullying efforts”  • Students also expressed positive feelings about their connectedness to school.  69% of students agreed or strongly agreed that “I receive encouragement from the teachers and staff members at my school”  • 73% agreed or strongly agreed that “I feel respected by the teachers at my school”  • 69% agreed or strongly agreed that “I feel respected by the staff members at my school” Responses to the survey revealed some areas for growth, which will continue to inform district action in the coming year:  • 42% of students agreed or strongly agreed that “Students at my school try to stop bullying when they see it happening”  • 40% agreed or strongly agreed that “Students at my school respect each other”   In additional to the survey, for 2018-2019 district staff held family and staff meetings to address overall safety concerns. An average of 80% of respondents interviewed believed that the sites were safe and overall suspension were low coming in at .6% of students being suspended at least once. However, the respondents also reported that they would like more training for emergency situations—i.e. active shooter drills. The District is currently working on a professional development plan for this training.   TCUSD strives to provide all students with positive behavior and intervention support programs in order to ensure they graduate with the intra- and interpersonal skills necessary to succeed in college, career, and life. The District promotes a culture of support for positive student behavior by employing counselors at all academic levels supporting student development and growth. Additionally, many TCUSD employees have received training on Positive Behavior Intervention (PBIS) and suicide prevention. The District also supports opportunities for school engagement and socio-emotional development by offering clubs and innovative academic programs.|2019-06-26||Met|2019
40688410000000|Templeton Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
54721990000000|Terra Bella Union Elementary|6|DATA: School Climate Survey 2019 The key items from the survey were the 72% percent of students who were proud to be part of the school and the 54% of students who feel comfortable coming to school staff with a problem.  MEANING:  The data reveals a growth in school spirit and belonging districtwide and a disconnect with personal communication with adults.  USE:  The district will reevaluate the need to increase interventions and counseling and promote safety and trust among school staff.  Teachers and staff will receive PD on identifying students who need crisis intervention. School pride and academic celebrations will continue as planned.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
01611190122085|The Academy of Alameda|6|During the 2018-2019 school year we surveyed students through a school culture survey conducted through Panorama Education and through Focus Groups. Both the survey and the focus groups showed that the majority of students have a positive sense of the school climate and school safety. The majority of students feel that the adults at our school care about them and that they have an adult they can talk to at school when they have a problem. A key area of growth identified in both the survey and the focus groups is school and classroom engagement. This data shows that the work we have done over the last 3-4 years to implement a Restorative Justice program and to invest in school culture and enrichment programs, has had a positive impact. Students feel safe and trust that adults in the school will help them resolve conflicts. The majority of students feel that the overall energy of the school is positive. Because we have been focused on improving our school culture and Restorative Justice program, we have focused less on building practices that will increase the culture of learning in school. A primary component of our strategic plan is to adopt and develop deep learning and engagement strategies to increase student engagement with school. We believe we can leverage the strong sense of positive school culture and the relationship work we have done through our Restorative Justice program to engage students more deeply in their academic work. Our Teaching and Learning Leadership Team and our Instructional Leadership Team are focusing on researching deep learning pedagogies and curriculum this fall and we are planning to pilot some of the curricula this spring. We also plan to dedicate professional development time in the spring and fall for this work.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
01611190131805|The Academy of Alameda Elementary|6|The Academy of Alameda Elementary School spanned grades K-3 during the 2017-18 school year and administered the Panorama Education survey to its 52 3rd graders in the spring of 2018. Because it is such a small sample size and because this was the first year the school administered the survey, the school used the data to establish some baselines and to norm on how and to whom it would like to administer the survey in the future.  Based on the initial survey in the spring of 2018, the school determined that 3rd and 4th grade students were too young to take the survey and that data from students at such an age was difficult to interpret;  the school concluded that it would wait to re-administer the survey during the 2019-20 school year when the school has its first class of 5th graders.  Generally speaking, the 2017-18 survey data appeared to demonstrate that the school’s 3rd grade students felt safe and connected to the school. Areas of strength for the school included students feelings of belonging and representation in the classroom as well as their positive feelings toward their teachers and other staff at the school. Students indicated that they felt they could approach staff when in need of support--either academic or social-emotional--and felt generally safe with all staff members. Areas of growth included students feeling like they are not always able to articulate their feelings nor express disagreement with their peers without becoming argumentative. In order to address this identified need, the school expanded its after school girls running club as well as expand the boys’ groups that the school has offered. Both the running club and the boys’ groups were designed to help give students vocabulary and tools for expressing themselves and for dealing with conflict with their peers.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330134148|The City|6|The City School annually administers the Panorama Education CORE District survey and includes supplemental questions about student sense of safety and belonging. This survey allows us to review year-over-year growth (for the past 4 years), and compares our outcomes to a nationally normed score as well.|2019-10-24|2018-19 Students Survey: Student survey feedback: • 80% of students rate culture and climate favorably • 80% rate educational excellence favorably • 90% favorably rated the climate of support for academic learning (teachers going out of their way to help students) = >90th percentile nationwide • 85% favorably rate their sense of belonging/ connectedness = 99th percentile nationwide  2018-19 Family Survey (227 respondents out of approximately 300): % favorable ratings: 93% Climate of support for academic learning  (down 4%) 96% knowledge and fairness of discipline, rules, and norms  (down 1%) 84% safety (72% surrounding neighborhood, 95% school grounds)  (down 21% and 4% respectively) 97% sense of belonging/connectedness (down 1%) (98% Af-Am, 98% Hisp, 98% white, 99% FRL, 98% SPED)|Met|2019
14101400128447|The Education Corps|6|Our school was pleased to learn from the survey that many of our students feel safe at school despite the fact that our schools are located in neighborhoods riddled with crime and socioeconomic distress. We work very hard at creating a safe haven for our students at our schools and the school climate survey results support that effort. We also frequently tout our small class sizes and family environment as the secret to our success with our students. We were pleased to see that results surrounding student support, encouragement, and positive relationships also showed positively on our climate survey. Most students responded that there are a lot of chances to get one on one support from a teacher or administrator. Additionally, almost all students responded that they have a good relationship with at least one teacher or administrator at our school. Lastly, almost all students responded that they get a lot of encouragement from the school and that they feel like their teachers care about them.  For the last few years we have worked to implement a schoolwide positive behavioral skill building program. Last year we focused on it as one of our two main schoolwide goals. Survey results showed an improvement from previous years in the consistency of these skills being talked about but it is still not where we want it to be. The results of the climate survey show that our skill based discipline model is being inconsistently implemented. This is something we saw observed in our own school and classroom walkthroughs but the survey results validate those observations. Some of the areas in particular that we would like to see better results this upcoming school year are: "teachers take time during the school day to teach us social skills," "I see rules about student behavior posted in classrooms and other areas of the school", "students can get away with misbehavior with some teachers more than with others", and "teachers clearly communicate their expectations about behavior to me and my classmates". These are areas where we will focus our training this school year.|2019-09-13|We are very encouraged to report that bullying was described as a rare occurrence by all students. Although we would love if respondents reported 100% that bullying never occurred we only had 2% of students report that they witnessed bullying or harassment at our schools. This is very important to us and substantiates the findings of why students feel safe at our schools.|Met|2019
37680490127118|The Heights Charter|6|Stakeholders believe that our resource center is a welcoming, safe environment. Because of campus violence across the United States, school safety is more of a concern than it used to be. Safety procedures have been updated to include protection requiring immediate lockdown and/or active shooters. Staff is receptive to the students' needs and our students are in a safe place academically, emotionally, and physically based on feedback of stakeholders. Stakeholders listed climate as a high priority on their feedback. Emergency plans are in place and regularly practiced by students; and there are no deferred maintenance issues.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
34674390106898|The Language Academy of Sacramento|6|Excerpt from LAS LCAP Annual Update (Board approved, June 2019) STUDENT ENGAGEMENT AND BUILDING CONFIDENCE AND LIFE SKILLS: DATA 1 - Attendance Rate Goal 95% or above (LAS Actual: 96%) DATA 2 - 96% of TK-8 students participated in the student survey completion DATA 3 - Q1: 93% stated, “I like my school.” Q2: 89% stated, “I feel safe at school.” Q3: 59% stated, “My school is clean.” Q4: 98% stated, “It is important for me to learn to read and write in Spanish." Q5: 98% stated, "It is important for me to learn to read and write in English."|2019-06-21|Based on the end of the year surveys for 2018-19, the largest category of comments from students and families was LAS as an Excellent and Highly Recommended School.|Met|2019
37681300139063|The Learning Choice Academy - East County|6|Findings reported: The Learning Choice Academy – East County administered a student survey to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in combination with TLC Academy.  A total of 311 students completed the survey, a 43% participation rate.   FINDINGS:  The following are student survey findings: • 80% feel they can be honest in their communication with TLC Leadership • 74% feel they receive timely information about policies, procedures, and plans that affect them. • 75% stated that there has been improvement in communication over the past year.  • 86% are satisfied with their job.  • 23% find PLC during staff meetings very/extremely useful.  • 98% agree adults at this school really care about every student.  • 95% agree adults listen to what students have to say. • 92% agree adults feel a responsibility to improve the school.  • 95% agree adults work hard to ensure a safe and supportive learning environment  The Leadership Team will review, analyze and report student survey result findings and will develop strategies to increase participation rate on the student survey.  In addition, the school will research evidence-based student surveys to administer in Spring 2020 as part of the LCAP requirements; and administer a separate Student & Parent survey for each of the TLC Charter Schools.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
34674390101907|The MET|6||||Not Met|2019
38769270132183|The New School of San Francisco|6|In Spring 2019, all staff and both third and fourth grade students were administered the School Climate Assessment Instrument (SCAI). This survey gathers data related to the school’s Physical Appearance, Faculty Relationships, Student Interactions, Leadership & Decision-Making, Discipline, Learning & Assessment, Attitude & Culture, Community Decisions, and Special Education. Staff and students were asked to provide a score of 1-5.  The dimensions related to student perceptions of school safety and connectedness are detailed below.   The school used the data points below when analyzing student culture and areas of success. This data indicates that our school has built and continues to build a safe, supportive, and joyful learning environment for all students. The continued focus on teaching the whole child, has supported our students' need to develop their tool-kit to identify their feelings and the actions that impact themselves and the community. We will implement additional tools to assess data across our community and the comparable efficacy amongst underrepresented groups.  SCAI results relating to staff perception of student sense of safety and student connectedness: Dimension 3: ‘Student Interactions’.  Staff consistently rate student’s sense of safety and connectedness as very high, as evidenced by: - 4.50 out of 5: Sense of Belonging - 4.29 out of 5: Emergence of Student Leaders - 4.25 out of 5: Sense of Safety - 4.38 out of 5: Student Voice on Decision-Making Dimension 5: ‘Discipline’.  Staff consistently rate student culture as very strong, as evidenced by: - 4.67 out of 5: Sense of Classroom Community - 4.71 out of 5: Supportive and Respectful Interactions with Students - 4.42 out of 5: Consideration of Student Input in Decision-Making Dimension 7: ‘‘Attitude and Culture’’.  Staff rate students’ perception of school culture as very positive, as evidenced by: - 4.73 out of 5: Students Speak Proudly About School - 4.59 out of 5: Students Think School is the Best - 4.09 out of 5: Students Responsibility for Others Behavior  SCAI results relating to student perception of school safety and connectedness: Dimension 3: ‘Student Interactions’.  Students regard our K-4 students’ sense of safety and connectedness as positive, as evidenced by: - 3.57 out of 5: Sense of Belonging - 3.93 out of 5: Equity and Connectedness of Student Groups - 4.07 out of 5: Impact of ‘Popular’ Students - 3.84 out of 5: Emergence of Student Leaders - 3.75 out of 5: Student Voice in Decision-Making Dimension 5: ‘Discipline’.  Students perceive a very strong sense of classroom community, as evidenced by: - 3.82 out of 5: Sense of Classroom Community - 4.20 out of 5: Management of Student Autonomy - 4.27 out of 5: Supportive and Respectful Interactions with Students Dimension 7: ‘‘Attitude and Culture’’.  Students feel supported at their school, as evidenced by: - 4.20 out of 5: Students Seek Support of Adults - 3.43 out of 5: Student Responsibility for Others’ Behavior|2019-11-15||Met|2019
37683386061964|The O'Farrell Charter|6|DATA: CALIFORNIA HEALTHY KIDS SURVEY DATA 2018-2019: • School connectedness (% agree or strongly agree):    o Elementary school: 66%    o Middle school: 57%    o High school: 63% • School Safety (% agree or strongly agree)    o Elementary school: 71%    o Middle school: 54%    o High school: 66%  MEANING: In addition to the above reported data, a fairly high percentage of students (76%) reported that the school created an anti-bullying climate as well as reported that the school provided academic motivation for students to succeed (76%).  This indicates a strong school culture focused on academic achievement and positive relationships.  The data regarding school safety and connectedness demonstrates that more than 50% of students across grade levels feel safe at school and have a sense of school connectedness.  The percentage of students who report that they agree or strongly agree with these statements dips in the middle school.  While the LEA facilitates activities to create a sense of school community in all grade levels, a focus on intensifying efforts to increase students’ perception of school connectedness are being implemented in the middle school during the 2019-2020 school year.  These activities range from conducting restorative circles to homebase competitions and various culture building activities, and include staff training and coaching to increase the school’s capacity to continue to develop positive relationships with students at school.   USE: To engage in a continuous improvement process, the LEA surveys students and staff yearly to determine focus areas.  Data from these surveys is shared among leadership teams and next steps are put into place after data analysis.  An area of focus for this year has been identified: bullying prevention.  This was noted from survey data and thus, the school is conducting several town meetings throughout the school year to present on topics related to this issue.  Additionally, homebase curriculum includes a socio-emotional component and students in need are receiving additional targeted counseling efforts from an at-risk counselor.  California Healthy Kids survey data is used as a driving force to implement socio-emotional supports across the LEA and to target implementation of school events and activities to increase student’s sense of connectedness and to positively build relationships among students and staff.  These efforts are being made in addition to continuing to implement a campus-wide progressive discipline policy while integrating restorative justice through facilitating restorative circles and discussions with students.|2019-10-14|The LEA administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to all applicable grades every year to receive the most up-to-date school climate data.|Met|2019
04615490000000|Thermalito Union Elementary|6|Nelson Middle School Climate Survey 6-8th grade 2018-2019 Spring results: 86% of our students reported they were not bullied at school (7.5% increase of students who were not bullied at school.) 85% of students reported if they have a problem, they know they have someone to talk to at school. 78% of students reported there is a teacher or other adult at school, who really cares about them.  77% of students reported they feel safe at school.  Plumas, Poplar and Sierra Avenue School Student Safety Survey 2018-2019 spring results: All elementary grades 3rd -5th students surveyed how they feel at school: 74% of these students feel safe or very safe.  81% responded they feel cared about all or most of the time. 77% responded they are happy and feel like they are part of the school. (connectedness)  79% of students feel they are treated fairly all or most of the time at.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
38684786040935|Thomas Edison Charter Academy|6|An online survey was completed in class by all 5th and 8th graders at TECA in Spring 2019. Students provided feedback on their experiences as students at TECA. The survey was anonymous and completed by all students in attendance. In addition, parents and staff were surveyed on their own perceptions of school climate. 25% of parents (up from 20% last year) and 55% (up from 30%) of staff provided survey feedback.  Results show that students’ overall perception of their academic development and the school’s support of them is positive. College aspirations are high, with 96% of students expressing their plan to attend college. Most TECA students perceive school as meaningful, while slightly fewer “like” going to school. Just about all (98%) students said they have friends at school, and 96% students feel as though they have an adult at school who believes they will succeed, both demonstrating that our students have a solid support network at school. Parents’ perception of future academic aspirations mirrors their children and nearly all feel as though education is important for their child’s future, with the majority believing that TECA has high academic standards. Teachers and staff at TECA also support these high aspirations by reporting individually communicating student progress and goals.   TECA administration used survey data to support with planning process for the year to identify needs and programming gaps.  While the majority of students indicated they feel safe in their neighborhood (89%), slightly fewer students report that they feel safe emotionally (81%) and physically (83%) at school. On the contrary, 91% of parents feel that TECA is a safe place for their child. From the staff perspective, the majority (95%) feels that TECA is a safe place to work. With regards to relationships, the vast majority of TECA students surveyed indicate they have friends at TECA and feel connected to them. However, less students feel this connection to an adult, especially when it comes to non-academic problems (74%). TECA staff feel more connected, with 87% feeling supported by their colleagues at work. As a result of data such as this, a Social Emotional Learning curriculum is a top priority this school year. TECA administration is reviewing Social Emotional Learning curriculum this fall to select a program that best fits the needs of our community. Once selected, this curriculum will be implemented school-wide to support the teaching of the whole child at TECA. In addition, we have rolled out the Loving and Supportive School Initiative to focus on creating engaging, safe learning environments and social emotional learning. Finally, class size reduction has been a great support to teachers in grades 4-8 that will continue, which allowed teachers to attend to the unique needs of their students- academic and social emotional- more smoothly than they would be able to do in a larger class.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
18641960135756|Thompson Peak Charter|6|Surveys were conducted during March and April 2019 to all enrolled students and their families and included questions on student perceptions of school safety and connectedness. Survey results include: 93.3% of students in grades K-5, 91.1% of students in grades 6-12, and 100% of parents feel the school is a safe place for students; 90.91% of students feel encouraged to provide input in school decision making; 82.61% of parents report their family feels a sense of connectedness to the school. The opportunity for students to participate meaningfully in decision making is a priority for the school community.  The implementation of student leadership classes yielded an increase of 8.61%.  These opportunities will be continued.  Additionally, The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered. 41 students in grades 7-12 responded.  Of those respondents, 89% had a high level of agreement on the caring relationship scale.  Results of concern are 37% responded yes to having chronic sad or hopeless feelings.  The school provides mental health support and intends to make sure all student and families know of its availability.|2019-06-13||Met|2019
23655650123737|Three Rivers Charter|6|Every year we ask each student to complete a survey on the climate of the school including the cleanliness, how safe the children feel, how they feel about their education and their relationship with their teacher and the other support personnel here. We survey the parents on their satisfaction with the school and what other services they would like to see for their children and for themselves.  1. We learned that the climate at our school is perceived by the students and their parents as being very good, and our focus on anti-bullying and respect for others, is the main reason families come to our school. We did a survey at the beginning of the year and the end of the year without much change in the perception. In the Spring, 97% of the students felt good about the school and 94% of the students felt good about their academics. 84% of the students felt the school was appropriately cleaned. 93% of the students felt safe at school and 87% felt they were not bullied. 99% of the students felt they received the support and help they needed from the staff. We also completed a FIA (Fidelity Integrity Assessment) twice last year and will do that assessment twice this year as well. This assessment helps us align our support programs and review how we can better serve all of our students. 2. Being a small school has its challenges as well as its advantages. We sometimes find it difficult to provide certain services and since many of us wear multiple-hats time can also be a factor. The positive side of being so small is that we tend to be a very intimate setting. Most of the staff have a personal relationship with all of the students and we know the parents quite well. We are extremely flexible and are able to design a program for the students as needed. 3. We started on an overall process a few years ago regarding our academic testing results and have done a number of things to improve our scores. Some of these actions include putting in new curriculums as needed, bringing in consultants, putting in new support systems. We have definitely seen improvements in our academic achievements. We recognized that one of the ways we could help our students was to put in a reading program which we did last year and continued into this year. We are getting wonderful results with this program. We continue to build on our PBIS program and we are having a minimum number of incidents such as suspensions and expulsions. We implemented a lunch program this year as well. As we start our LCAP process we are reviewing all of our programs with our parents and what kind of programs are needed to be implemented.|2019-09-17||Met|2019
54722070000000|Three Rivers Union Elementary|6|In 2018, the LEA conducted an online survey for students, parents, and staff. The survey was done online as suggested by school site council members but was also available in paper format. The administrator recognizes that more parents may have responded if the release of the survey allowed more time for response.  Altogether 100 students, parents and teachers responded to the survey; 74 students, 13 staff members, and 13 parents. The survey covered not only school climate but also other aspects of the operation of the LEA. 75% of the respondents felt that it was important to maintain and create a positive school environment, 68% felt that the LEA needed to ensure facilities are in good repair, 39% wanted to ensure that students have access to Visual and Performing Arts, after school activities, and sports, and 71% wanted a focus to be on increasing student achievement. It is the intention of the administration to see that the surveys are distributed earlier in 2020 in both online and paper format. The Superintendent / Principal will work with the School Site Council to review and revise the survey for the spring.|2019-11-04||Met|2019
37769010134429|Thrive Public|6||||Not Met|2019
41690216044770|Tierra Linda Middle|6|SCSD administers the Panorama Student Survey to students annually and these results are used to shape LCAP goals. The results below (% favorable) were reported by students on the spring 2019 survey and reported to the Board on May 23, 2019.  Tierra Linda Safety: 63% Sense of Belonging: 72% Supportive Relationships: 78%  Goal 4 of SCSD’s LCAP specifically targets student engagement and sense of belonging:  Ensure Equitable Access to Learning for all Students and Increase Student Engagement and Sense of Belonging Within Each School Community. Specific actions have been established to address school climate, sense of belonging, active participation, caring adults and high expectations. Ensuring more student voice and choice, increasing student engagement opportunities and Project-Based Learning, and implementing Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), and beginning to develop a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) across all schools were identified as high impact actions.   In addition, middle schools have started the Where Everybody Belongs (WEB) Program to further enhance the transition to middle school.  Both middle schools are working with their staff on implementation of restorative circles and implicit bias training.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
44697650100388|Tierra Pacifica Charter|6|A school-generated student survey disseminated to all 155 students in spring of 2019 found that the overwhelming majority of TPCS students say that they trust teachers and staff to support them (78.5% agree), the school supports their social and emotional learning (76.3% agree), their teachers take the time to discuss their learning and help them when needed (80% agree), they feel physically safe at school (76.3% agree), their teachers are approachable and fair (78.5% agree), and school is a place where differences are valued and appreciated (72.8% agree). We have learned from these results that the school is continuing to provide students a safe and effective learning climate that supports their whole being (social, emotional, physical, and academic selves).  In the comments section, a number of students remarked about the cleanliness and 'smell' of the student bathrooms. We have implemented a monthly maintenance routine which replaces urinal filters more often and we have replaced the flooring in all student restrooms. A group of student leaders created a presentation to help students understand why they have a role in keeping the bathrooms sanitary. In addition, a group of older boys met with younger boys when the bathroom conditions were worse than usual. It is important that students perceive their bathroom facilities as being hygienic and clean, and know that the staff care and respond to their input. Since implementing these actions, we have seen an improvement in the care and cleanliness of the student bathrooms.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
54722150000000|Tipton Elementary|6|The 5th and 7th grade students at Tipton Elementary took part in the California Healthy Kids Survey during the 2017-2018 school year. The CHKS survey is done every other year. The survey for 5th grade focused on school engagement and supports, school safety, disciplinary environment and lifetime substance use. The 7th grade survey focused on assessing student perceptions and experiences related to school climate and engagement, learning, supports and health-related and non-academic learning barriers.  Looking at the results from school engagement and supports the 5th grade showed 48% having school connectedness and 7th grade showed 26%. The students in 5th grade had 52% of students feeling that they had academic motivation and 7th grade students had 39%. 60% of 5th grade students felt that they had a caring adult relationship and 25% for 7th grade. 60% of 5th graders felt that they had high expectations and 44% of 7th graders felt the same. Only 9% of students in 5th grade and 8% of 7th graders felt that they had meaningful participation.|2019-10-01||Met|2019
19646340119552|Today's Fresh Start Charter School Inglewood|6|During the 2018-2019 school year, a School Climate Survey was made available to all students in grades TK – 8. Today’s Fresh Start Charter School chose the selected survey as a means to collect data regarding students’ perceptions of the school in a manner that would maximize the sample size, encouraging input from all students. The purpose of employing a quantitative approach was to ascertain the degree to which students hold positive perceptions of varied aspects of the school, including the understanding of safeness and connectedness. Results from the 346 returned surveys concluded that 91% of students feel safe at TFSCS. Survey items relating to student perceptions of connectedness found that 94% hold a positive impression. 84% of the students surveyed indicated that they are happy to be at TFSCS. 91% of students positively reported feeling that their teachers cared about them. 94% of students said that other adults at TFSCS cared about them. 94% of students reported that their teachers and other adults at TFSCS treat them fairly.   Data were disaggregated using three grade level spans, TK-2, 3-5, and 6-8. Analysis of the data showed that students reported feeling safe at school stays the same from TK-2 to the 3-5 grade level spans and decreased slightly from the 3-5 and 6-8 grade level spans. Analysis of the data showed that students reported feeling safe at school stayed the same from TK-2 to the 3-5 grade level spans and decreased slightly from 3-5 to 6-8 grade level spans. Overall, the information communicates that students, by and large, feel safe and want to be here.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
19734370132845|Today's Fresh Start-Compton|6|During the 2018-2019 school year, a School Climate Survey was made available to all students in grades TK – 8. Today’s Fresh Start Charter School chose the selected survey as a means to collect data regarding students’ perceptions of the school in a manner that would maximize the sample size, encouraging input from all students. The purpose of employing a quantitative approach was to ascertain the degree to which students hold positive perceptions of varied aspects of the school, including the understanding of safeness and connectedness. Results from the 525 returned surveys that 95% of students feel safe at TFSCS, an increase from last year’s percentage of 94%.  Survey items relating to student perceptions of connectedness found that 96% hold a positive impression. This is also an increase? from 95% of the previous year. 93% of the students surveyed indicated that they are happy to be at TFSCS. 96% of students positively reported feeling that their teachers cared about them. 97% of students said that other adults at TFSCS cared about them. 96% of students reported that their teachers and other adults at TFSCS treat them fairly.   Data were disaggregated using three grade level spans, TK-2, 3-5, and 6-8. Analysis of the data showed that students reported feeling safe at school stays the same from TK-2 to the 3-5 grade level spans and decreased slightly from the 3-5 and 6-8 grade level spans. Analysis of the data showed that students reported? feeling safe at school stayed the same from TK-2 to the 3-5 grade level spans and decreased slightly from 3-5 to 6-8 grade level spans. Overall, the information communicates that students, by and large, feel safe and want to be here.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
30103060137976|Tomorrow's Leadership Collaborative (TLC) Charter|6|Findings reported: PARTICIPATION RATE: In order to measure student perceptions of school safety and connectedness, the Principal administered a baseline student survey.  A total of 17 students in grades 3-4 participated and completed the student survey, an 85% participation rate.  Note: Interpret results with caution as a result of the small number of respondents.  SURVEY FINDINGS:  The following are the findings from the student survey: School Climate: • 41% stated that the energy at the school is very positive.  • 88.2% stated their teachers seem excited to be teaching frequently/almost always.  Teacher –Student Relationships • 94% stated their teachers are extremely/quite respectful to them (students).  • 76.4% stated they would be extremely/quite excited to have their teachers again next year. School Belonging: • 88.2% stated they feel like they belong at their school.  School Safety: • 35% state they almost never/once in a while worry about violence at their school.  • 53% stated of a student is bullied in school it would not at all/a little be difficult to get help from an adult.  This survey was administered to collect data on student perceptions on school connectedness and school safety.  The results were shared with stakeholders (staff, students, parents, and board) and will be used to continue to improve school climate, provide an engaging learning environment, and develop positive relationships with all students.   Additionally, the Principal will research a valid evidence-based student survey for the Spring 2020 student survey administration such as the Panorama to ensure accurate survey reporting and adhering to the CDE requirements outlined in the LCAP and Priority 6 School Climate.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647336019525|Topanga Elementary Charter|6|At the elementary levels, LA Unified adopted a new progress report card in Fall 2017 that teachers, principal and central office staff can use to monitor student access to and completion of a broad course of study. In addition, physical education in elementary schools is monitored using a certification process that requires teacher and principal confirmation of appropriate instructional minutes. Students in need of additional supports are identified using various reports in the student information system (e.g., at-risk reports), Dibels, IEP, IABs (ongoing District assessments in ELA and Math) Based on school categorization on the index, school assessment results provide LA Unified with guidance on how to more equitably allocate arts resources to ensure that all students have appropriate arts access and instruction. In Fall of 2019, a new Whole Child dashboard will be released for teachers and in Winter of 2020, a new Whole Child dashboard for principals will be released to support using data to drive instructional improvement and student learning.|2019-10-29|Based on school categorization on the index, school assessment results provide LA Unified with guidance on how to more equitably allocate arts resources to ensure that all students have appropriate arts access and instruction. In Fall of 2019, a new Whole Child dashboard will be released for teachers and in Winter of 2020, a new Whole Child dashboard for principals will be released to support using data to drive instructional improvement and student learning. Topanga Charter administered the 2018 – 2019 School Experience Survey during the spring semester to 3rd – 5th graders.  The School Experience Survey participation rate was as follows: Parents 39%, Students 74%, Staff 91%.   The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the percentage of agreement by students: • Are you happy to be at this school? 92% • Do you feel like you are part of this school? 91% • Do you feel close to people at this school? 91% • Do you feel safe at this school?  91% • Do teachers care if you are absent from school? 86% • Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school?  91% • Do you feel safe in the neighborhood around this school? 88% • For the most part are kids at this school kind to each other? 75% • Do adults at this school treat students with respect? 88% • Overall connectedness and safety: 90%|Met|2019
19647336019533|Topeka Charter School For Advanced Studies|6|Topeka Charter SAS administered the 2018-2019 School Experience Survey to 4th- 5th graders. The participation rate for this survey was 99%. The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the percentage of students indicating Agree or Strongly Agree.  1. The teachers at this school treat students fairly. 87%  2. If I told an adult at this school that another student was bullying me, he or she would try to help me. 89% 3.     Do you feel safe at this school? 83%  4.     I am happy at this school? 87%   5.     Do you feel like you are part of this school? 78%.   The data shows that at TCSAS, the student perception of school climate and connectedness both reflect the school’s priorities of ensuring student safety and creating a culture of care.  The one question above, which rated at 78% (students feeling a part of the school), will be a point of attention for the school team.  We will use questions like #5 and # 3, to drive conversations and derive plans of improvement with students, staff, and parents.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19650600000000|Torrance Unified|6|During the 2017-18 school year, TUSD began surveying students on the specific topics of school safety and connectedness. TUSD incorporated these principles concerning school safety and connectedness from the Positive Behavior Intervention Supports: Tiered Fidelity Inventory and the PBIS: Self-Assessment Survey which have each been completed by staff members at schools. As well as data from the School Wide Information System in which all schools record their behavior information. After reviewing various well known student surveys, TUSD decided to utilize the PBIS: School Climate Survey Suite (SCSS) to survey students. All 5th, 7th, and 10th grade students complete the survey each school year during the month of October.   Data from 2017-18 demonstrated that all students who participated in the survey indicated an overall 76% positive response rate on questions. Broken down into grade levels, it was 5th grade: 79%, 7th grade: 79%, and 10th grade: 72% positive. These results were utilized as a baseline to measure future growth. Data from 2018-19 demonstrated nearly identical results from the year before, even when broken down into grade levels.  Based on the results from the October 2018 survey administration, each school disaggregated and analyzed their results. This included breakdowns by question, gender, and significant subgroups if applicable. Based upon this analysis, site administrators brainstormed and planned ways to increase school safety and connectedness. Areas of specific interest and needs included but were not limited to social-emotional growth, dealing with stress, good health and habits, threats to school/students, and suicidal/self-injurious behavior. They included increasing awareness to students and staff, an information campaign, notices to parents, PBIS activities, positive rewards systems for behavior and academics, increasing clubs and organizations, community support, etc. Specific district-wide programs that began during the 2018-19 school year and are continuing during 2019-20 include Second Step (social-emotional lessons) curriculum for elementary, Start with Hello (friendly school climate) for secondary and upper elementary, See Something, Say Something (reporting threatening student behavior) for secondary, Anonymous Reporting System (suicidal/self-injurious behavior) for secondary, and the documentary “Like” (hazards of social media) for some secondary students and parents.  The SCSS is being administered again for the third year during October 2019. Therefore, the results are not available yet. When they are, the data will again be analyzed with similar methods.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
39754990000000|Tracy Joint Unified|6|TUSD administers an annual LCAP survey to all parents, students, and staff. The survey collect feedback on the district and site programs and services, as well as safety and climate. The results below reflect survey participants responses to questions that were marked as agree or strongly agree on feeling safe and having a positive climate.                       Climate         Safety Parents  97%           84% Students   77%           76% Staff          81%           83%  As a result of the survey data, TUSD has implemented school site safety drills so all students and staff are informed of how to respond in an emergency situation. In addition, the district and sites will facilitate focus groups to better understand how to increase the climate for various students groups. The data will be collected to develop a strategic plan of improvement that may include awareness training and best practices. The district has also invested in Panorama, a digital platform that assist in administering surveys around student self efficacy, emotion regulation, and social awareness. The survey data will be used to incorporate preventative intervention to students that are experiencing challenges in any one area.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
54722230000000|Traver Joint Elementary|6|The Healthy Kids Survey was adminstered and for the most part the students felt that the school environment was good.  Most students indicated that total school supports were high, caring adults at school was also high, the expectations of adults at school was high and that most felt that their participation was meaningful.  Students felt connected and safe. This was huge for the district.  We were thrilled to see that all of our kids were feeling what we saw.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
48705650000000|Travis Unified|6|The detailed Board report plus all California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) and other survey data are available at https://www.travisusd.org/Page/4630.  We are seeing improvement in CHKS survey data in perceived safety and harassment reduction.  At Golden West, in 2018-19, 68% of students perceived the school to be safe or very safe, an increase from 63% the previous year.  For harassment and bullying, there was also improvement, from 44% of students reporting one or more instances in 2017-18 and 40% in 2018-19.   At Vanden, we saw similar increases in perceived school safety.  In 2018-19, 66% of freshmen perceived the school to be safe or very safe, compared to 60% the previous year.  For harassment/bullying, there was a reduction from 37% last year to 34% this year.  Juniors also reported improvements, with safety up from 56% to 59%, and harassment/bullying down to 27% from 32%.  Our alternative education harassment/bullying rate also dropped 3% to 37%, and safety perception rose from 56% to 64%. Our elementary students feel safe at school, with individual schools reporting 81% to 89%.  Reports of harassment/bullying are in the 40% range, indicating this should remain an area of focus.   There is more work to be done in the area of perceived school safety and anti-harassment/bullying.  In our LCAP, we are continuing the actions and services that appear to be yielding improvements. Wellness, especially related to sadness, depression, and suicidal ideation is an ongoing concern.  In 5th grade, students are asked whether they feel sad.  13% of students reported that they feel sad most or all of the time.   26% of 7th grade students reported feeling so sad or hopeless every day for two weeks or more than they stopped doing some usual activities.  12% reported seriously considering suicide.  Two years ago, 31% of students reported sadness, so 26% is an improvement, but this is still an area of need. At Vanden High, 29% of freshmen and 37% of juniors reported chronic sad or hopeless feelings.  Two years ago, these percentages were 36% and 43%, which provides evidence that our LCAP actions and services are effective.  18% of freshmen and 18% of juniors seriously considered suicide, down from 24% and 26% two years prior.  This is an improvement, but there is still work to do. Wellness remains a concern, and multiple actions and services in our LCAP are designed to address these needs.  Improving socio-emotional wellness and equity remain LCAP priorities, with staff training in examining bias, creating inclusive conditions, and mindfulness and relationship-building practices a focus for staff training.  Socio-emotional learning continues in elementary schools. We are continuing to provide social workers and mental health clinicians, and Student Support Specialists are available at all elementary schools, Golden West, and TEC to coach students in socio-emotional skills, and to listen to their concerns and help them find healthy ways to resolve conflicts.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
23656156117386|Tree of Life Charter|6|Annually, the school conducts a Student Satisfaction Survey to gauge the students' perception of their school experience.  The Student Council and school staff developed its own survey based on what was most meaningful to the students' experience.  (Students found that the California Healthy Kids Survey did not match information that was important or pertinent to them, so they did not want to use that tool.)    According to the data, 18% of students feel that the academic work is always challenging and over 75% of students feel that it is sometimes or usually challenging, which is up 10% from the prior year.   75% of students reported that they usually or always feel safe at Tree of Life, which is down 2%.  75% of students feel that they are usually or always treated respectfully by staff, which is down 1% from the prior year.  The data also revealed that 55% of students feel that they are usually or always respected by other students (down 3%) and 25% feel that they are sometimes respected by other students.  80% of students feel that they are usually or always learning to be responsible, which is up 4%.  90% of students feel that the field trips are usually or always fun and educational, which is up 2%.  Historically, data has fluctuated within 10 percentage points for each category, usually as a reflection of changes in staffing and student population.   Similar to the previous year, staff suspect that local wildfires and smoke pollution and other family traumas have affected student behavior and learning.  Staff reported having more incidents of behavioral challenges from students.  Many of these challenges were from students who had experienced trauma or who had social-emotional or impulse control due to symptoms of ADHD, ODD, and autism spectrum disorders.  The data showed that fewer students were feeling safe at school and being respected by other students.    Tree of Life continued to use Move This World social-emotional learning platform for a second year in a row.  Returning students building their social-emotional learning from the previous year should have increased the number of students feeling safe and respected, but the data does not show it.  As a part of Tree of Life’s Scaling Up MTSS activities, the staff used the DESSA behavior strengths assessment to identify students who need extra support and used the information to choose specific lessons for specific needs.  The school also used the NWEA MAP growth assessment to help pinpoint more accurately where the students’ needs were academically.  The teachers and support staff were able to design lessons to specifically fit the students’ needs. This could be responsible for the data showing that more students were feeling challenged.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
45699140135624|Tree of Life International Charter|6|In October, 2019 all 4th, 5th and 6th grade students were administered an anonymous Student Climate Survey, which included a total of 41 students: 20 4th grade, 11 6th and 10 5th graders.  Students indicated that 41.5% Spoke Mostly English at home; 41.5% spoke both English and Spanish at home and 17% spoke mostly Spanish at home. Using a likert scale from 1-5, students indicated agreement or disagreement with statements related to feeling safe at school, having an adult they could talk to about a problem at school, level of respect between teachers and students, how rules and consequences were implemented fairly, and whether they felt like they belonged and enjoyed coming to school.  In reviewing the data summary, from 80-100% of students agreed or strongly agreed to all of the statements above. There were a few outliers on some of the questions, which is expected.  The exceptions to this were on two items where from 26-29% marked the 3 (neither agree nor disagree) which lowered the overall agreement % to the 70's. The items were: Most students in my school are well behaved, and Most students in my school treat each other with respect.  This data shows that a significant % of students are experiencing an environment where students are sometimes behaving well, and that is sometimes respectful and sometimes disrespectful between students.  Through our weekly Heartsmart Social Emotional curriculum, teachers will explicitly address school climate in areas of respect and how to support student feelings of respect and connectedness.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
35675610000000|Tres Pinos Union Elementary|6|In 2017/2018 a school climate survey was given out at the beginning of the school year and the input from parent stakeholder indicated that out of the 37 questions, there were two areas of concern, and that was students are not friendly at this school and students are not treated with respect.  Since then, morning ceremonies address respect with a daily pledge and it is in classroom rules posted on the walls.  We also address rules against bullying and Student Rights and Rules for Behavior in the classroom.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
12629760115154|Trillium Charter|6|Our school holds a weekly all-school community meeting that is a forum for student announcements, ideas,  and group problem-solving for classroom and playground issues. Notes are taken and topics of concern are followed up at our Monday staff meeting. We have successfully used this format for monitoring the student climate, engaging the students to effect positive changes, and reduce the need for behavioral intervention, however, we are planning to administer a formal climate survey to the 4-5 grade class this year as well.|2019-10-30||Met|2019
12630570000000|Trinidad Union Elementary|6|Trinidad Union School District elicits parent/guardian engagement through formal and informal means including digital LCAP survey, Site Council, LCAP presentations, school board meetings, digital and print communication to families, school sponsored community events, digital citizenship night, kindergarten visitation nights, makers night, carnival, back to school night, parent teacher conference, open house, mailers home, student study team meetings, IEP meetings, and 504 meetings.   Formal surveys provided the following results with percentages of those who endorse the following comments/LCAP goals: 88% - TUSD provides a broad course of study for all students, ensuring they have options to learn 21st century skills.  91% -TUSD supports academic achievement through focused English Language Arts instruction while providing appropriate resources/teaching strategies.   100% - TUSD supports academic achievement through focused Math instruction while providing appropriate resources/teaching strategies. 98% - TUSD supports class size reduction for 3rd grade and under and reasonable class sizes for upper grades while providing appropriate resources/teaching strategies. 86% - Staff and administration work with students/parents to improve overall attendance & chronic absentee/tardy rates. 94% -TUSD ensures all students have access to enrichment opportunities which includes art, music/drama, gardening, PE, after school sports, marine science, world language exposure, after school homework club, and access to field trip opportunities. 89% - TUSD provides current technology to support student achievement, 21st century skills, implement academic standards, and online assessments with embedded instructional technology. 61% - TUSD actions and services are adequate in meeting the needs of students using Title 1 services, over 20% of respondents indicated that this was not applicable to them and did not answer.  83% -TUSD actions and services are adequate in meeting the needs of students with 504's and IEP's. 86% - TUSD provides engaging and safe learning environments, clean facilities, and a welcoming climate for all students, staff, and community members. District review of these results and other results indicate that TUSD will continue to focus on improving school climate and communication regarding attendance and chronic absenteeism, improve Title I, 504 and IEP services to meet the needs of students as well as communication with stakeholders about what these services are and their impacts and effects.  Additionally, the district will focus on instructional practices and the offering of a broad course of study for all students. TUSD provides opportunities for families with limited English language proficiency, disabilities, and family members of migratory children by forging strong relationships, multiple communication avenues, help families sign up for community support and referring to outside agencies, provide language support, and educating staff.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
53765130000000|Trinity Alps Unified|6|Every other year our District does a Healthy Kids Survey. This was done last year and the data was submitted in last years report. We will be doing another survey next year.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
53717610000000|Trinity Center Elementary|6|We learned that the responding parents unanimously agreed that the students felt safe and connected to their school, the students' social and emotional needs were supported, and the school is an inviting place to learn.  Therefore, we will continue to support parent and family involvement to promote a positive school climate.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
53105380000000|Trinity County Office of Education|6|Data: Local 25 question student survey, 6 students.  Based on school climate, relational health with staff and safety   Results:   Strengths: Relational health, kids feel cared about and encouraged.  Students know what to expect and understand the purpose of education is learning.  Areas of growth: Other students behavior can get in the way of learning, homework expectations are not clear and continuing to learn that it is ok to make mistakes which are an opportunity to learn.   Next Steps:   Continue to build relationship with all students around their interests and success. Continue to get students to self advocate and use proactive strategies when dealing with disappointment, anger or abandonment feelings. Continue to give students the opportunity to connect with the community, businesses and individuals. Grow relationships with parents so they are an active part of the students growth and next steps.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
42691120124255|Trivium Charter|6|The charter LEA administers a climate survey at least once a year and includes all families.  Survey results and general family feedback is reported at regularly scheduled board meetings and through the Dashboard.|2019-10-29|Our school climate survey results are consistently high.|Met|2019
42691120137877|Trivium Charter School Adventure|6|TCS, TCSA and TCSV:  The charter LEA administers a climate survey at least once a year and includes all families.  Survey results and general family feedback is reported at regularly scheduled board meetings and through the Dashboard.|2019-10-29|Our school climate survey results are consistently high.|Met|2019
42691120137885|Trivium Charter School Voyage|6|TCS, TCSA and TCSV:  The charter LEA administers a climate survey at least once a year and includes all families.  Survey results and general family feedback is reported at regularly scheduled board meetings and through the Dashboard.|2019-10-29|Our school climate survey results are consistently high.|Met|2019
36678920000000|Trona Joint Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
54722310000000|Tulare City|6|TCSD students in grades 3rd - 8th were administered the Panorama Climate survey (PCS) in the spring of 2019. Under the category of safety 2863 (3rd-5th) and 3030 (6th-8th)  responses had an overall rating of 70% favorable.  When asked, "Do you feel safe at school?"  82% of students in 3rd through 5th grade responded favorably and 72% of 6th through 8th graders responded favorably. In Spring 2018, 5th and 7th graders completed the CA. Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS), 79% of 5th graders expressed feeling safe at school, 67 % of 7th graders perceived school as being very safe or safe. Upon further investigation, 3rd-5th grade students on the PCS indicated their two greatest concerns both at 42% were fear of being hit or pushed when they are not just playing around and having mean rumors or lies spread about them.  In 6th - 8th grades, according to the PCS, 43% greatest concern is having mean rumors or lies spread about them. On the CHKS the greatest concern for 5th graders at 43% is being called bad names or having jokes made about them and 7th graders' greatest concern is 43% had mean rumors or lies spread about them and 36% experienced harassment or bullying.  Through our synthesis of findings in the area of Climate, Culture, and Environment our district will continue our second year of Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (PBIS) implementation with an emphasis on schoolwide systems of support that include proactive strategies for defining, teaching, and supporting appropriate student behaviors to create positive school environments. The following supports will be added:  1 additional School Psychologist to provide access to more services for students in mental health, learning, and behavior, to help children and youth succeed academically, socially, behaviorally, and emotionally; 1 additional Tulare Support School Teacher, an alternative educational environment designed to support students in socio-emotional learning in a smaller class setting; and 1 additional campus Life Mentors to provide services to students to promote connectedness. Professional development will be provided to staff members in partnership with WestEd on implementing Trauma-Informed practices and Dr. Jessica Hannigam will facilitate PBIS implementation with site leadership teams.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
54105460000000|Tulare County Office of Education|6|According to the California Healthy Kids Survey: *59% of students feel safe at school *69% of students feel a school connectedness *72% of students feel academically motivated at school *68% of students state that they try hard to make sure they complete their school work The data reveals that our TCOE Court and Community schools are having a positive impact on our student population.  Our students are comprised of incarcerated, probationary, adjudicated and expelled juveniles.  These students are typically enrolled with us one to two semesters.  In the short duration of their time at TCOE Court and Community, the data shows that a large of majority of our students feel connected, safe and motivated to succeed academically.   Based on the data provided by the California Healthy Kids Survey, TCOE Court and Community schools is utilizing the data to formulate our Socio-Emotional Learning goals, as part of our Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), which includes the implementation of a new revised Character Counts initiative to improve student school connectedness to address chronic absenteeism.|2019-10-09|TCOE Court and Community schools primary goal is to provide an academic environment that provides instructional, socio-emotional and behavioral supports in order to restore students back to their home district.|Met|2019
54722490000000|Tulare Joint Union High|6|Each spring Tulare Joint Union High School District administers a climate survey to its students. This student survey is administered to sophomores and seniors. The total number of the responses for the survey in the spring of 2019 was 2,078 students.  The survey includes specific questions geared at school safety and student connections to school. The survey includes questions from the California Healthy Kids Survey, however, we do not use the California Healthy Kids Survey every year, as it is a lengthy survey, resulting in students at times rushing through it. Through the survey, the majority of the students (60%) in our district indicated that they feel close to people at school, with only 13% of the students disagreeing or strongly disagreeing. Fifty-six percent of the students indicated that they were happy to be at school, while 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed. Nearly half of the students agreed or strongly agreed that they feel like they are part of the school (46%), while only 18% disagreed or strongly disagreed. Additionally, 54% of the students indicated that they feel safe at school, while only 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed. In addition to the positive response regarding school climate and safety, students also indicated that at their school, they have access to: challenging courses, such as Advanced Placement and honors (71%)and the necessary instructional materials (84%). Based on the survey results, the majority of our students feel safe and welcomed at our schools. Even though this is a definite strength, our district continues to explore way to engage all of our students, especially the 30% that still do not feel connected to our school. One of our challenges includes continuing to create a climate where all students feel welcomed and connected to our sites. This has resulted in our district continuing to develop our PBIS program and incentives. Based on the survey results, our district continues to make it a priority to provide training to our staff on improving connections to students. This includes providing all of our teachers with mental health training. Lack of time is another challenge for our district and has led us to be creative with our training and opportunities that we provide to our students and teachers. We also continue to improve on the implementation of our 4x4 modified rotating schedule, in order to give students more opportunities to take classes that they are interested in.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
25735930000000|Tulelake Basin Joint Unified|6|CHKS will be administered this year, the results from two years ago reflected an improvement in the school culture and safety.  Overall, participants felt that the school and administration had being improving the bullying and safety on campus.  The school site council does surveys every year that addresses school culture and safety among other things.  Unfortunately, they failed to get them out last year.  Surveys for this year will be going out next month.  The LEA has implemented PBIS and new administration has brought in a different culture.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
55105530000000|Tuolumne County Superintendent of Schools|6|Data: The Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the 2018/19 school year and is scheduled to be administered in the 2019/20 school year through the TUPE and LCSSP grants. The small sample sizes (21) specific to TCSOS makes trend analysis difficult. Looking at countywide rates provide a more valid and reliable statistic than a school level rate. What we can determine is that there is a continuing concern about substance use at the 5th grade level – 25% report using at least alcohol, inhalants, or marijuana to get high. 7th (2%), 9th (11%), and 11th (18%) grade level respondents report coming to school drunk or “high”. 26% of 9th grade (a 6 % increase) and 19% of 11th grade students have considered suicide and almost 40% of 7th grade experience chronic sadness/hopelessness with an astounding 47% of 9th and 49% of 11th grade students experiencing the same. 20% of 5th grade students report feeling sad most or all of the time.  Meaning: These survey results underscore the importance of providing mental health resources through our own staffing options – ERMS, counselor, and BCBA services at the site and embedded in the classroom. The Learning Communities for School Success Program has been instrumental in providing much needed training and support to students and staff. Full survey results can be found at: https://calschls.org/reports-data/search-lea-reports/ Use: In order to address academic performance issues, students must have additional support to address issues around depression, anxiety, and substance abuse, which is a tool utilized by individuals to escape their feelings of hopelessness. In the TCSOS LCAP, these are addressed by providing licensed mental health providers embedded in the programs to address student and family issues as they arise. In addition, those mental health providers are able to work with staff to help them adjust their thinking and responses to student behavior which can be challenging and perplexing. The data also provides TCSOS leverage in seeking grants to help bring more resources to our county to serve our most at-risk students.|2019-10-14|The CHKS will be administered in the 2019/20 school year. Tobacco and Substance Use curriculum will be implemented as part of the CDE expanded TUPE grant. New programs will be implemented including The Drugstore Project.|Met|2019
50757390000000|Turlock Unified|6|Turlock Unified School District administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 5, 7, 9, 11, and to our non-traditional schools in 2018-2019, and the District's LCAP survey was administered in January-March of 2019. The LCAP survey was made available to all students in the district, a majority of students responding the to the survey were seventh grade and up.  CHKS key findings included:  97% moderate to high for school connectedness at the elementary level and an average of 91% moderate to high for our secondary level, 95% moderate to high for caring adults in school at the elementary level and an average of 83% for caring adults at the secondary level.  77% perceived safety at school at the elementary level and 54.5% average of perceived safety at school at the secondary level.  LCAP Survey key findings include:  82.31% agree and strongly agree feeling safe at school and 69.51% agree and strongly agree with the statement:  I feel like I am part of the school/connectedness. The District will continue to review and monitor areas with site administration. The District has already provided parent engagement resources and tools to site administration i.e. Parent Engagement Toolkit.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
30736430000000|Tustin Unified|6|Tustin Unified administers the CORE SEL Survey, which asks students to self-report their level of agreement with statements that correlate with self-management, social awareness, self-efficacy, growth mindset, and school climate and culture. The survey offers reports on overall trends, as well as scores by category and question, and disaggregated results by subgroup. District-wide, the most notable results of the 2018-19 CORE SEL survey were as follows:  1) 82% of elementary students scored 70% or higher on the survey, while 70% of secondary students scored 70% or higher. This indicates that students report higher levels of social-emotional health in elementary school than in middle school. 2) District-wide, Self-Efficacy was the category of questions that had the lowest levels of healthy responses.  3) The categories with the highest levels of healthy responses differed between elementary and middle schools. For elementary, School Climate and Culture had the healthiest responses, and for middle, Self-Management had the healthiest responses.  When disaggregated, two of the most significant gaps between subgroups occurred by language proficiency and disability status. The average scores for English Learners was six to eight percentage points below the average scores for students who have been Redesignated Fluent English Proficient. Additionally, students who receive Special Education services scored five to seven percentage points below their peers.  These disaggregated data trends represent an area of growth. One of the strengths indicated by data is that elementary students have a healthy perception of their school culture and climate. TUSD schools have been implementing PBIS Systems for several years, and a number of schools use additional strategies, such as morning meetings, to build community at the school.   In order to continue School Climate growth, the following supports have been introduced as a result of the findings from the CORE SEL survey:  1) A Teacher on Special Assignment was hired to provide training on social-emotional strategies and supports for Tier 1 and Tier 2 response to student needs. 2) Learning Academies were formed for the 2019-2020 school year, providing teachers the opportunity to refine and build skills that will enhance levels of student learning, and have opportunities to share strategies and practices from their work. 3) Middle schools in TUSD are developing a partnership with Western Youth Services to provide multi-tiered support to students through the Behavioral Health Intervention and Support program. 4) Various sites will be hosting SEL Family Nights to teach families about Zones of Regulation and strategies in order to build a home-school connection and provide additional opportunities to engage in SEL learning.  TUSD will continue to administer the CORE SEL and Challenge Success surveys to students in the 2019-2020 school year.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
55724210000000|Twain Harte|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was given in the spring of 2019 to our 5th and 7th grade students. We had a 86% participation rate among our 7th grade students while only 42% of our 5th graders took the survey.  Key findings from the survey were that many of our students in these two grade level groups have experienced some form of verbal name calling or rumor spreading at school. The majority of the students surveyed did report, however, that there is an adult on campus who cared for them.  The survey results also indicated the need for drug and alcohol education for our middle grade students.  This year we will be participating in the Drug Store Project drug awareness program to educate our 8th grade students on the dangers and consequences of drug use.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
49709616052302|Twin Hills Charter Middle|6|Results of the California Healthy Kids Survey show:  80% of 7th graders report feeling safe or very safe at school. 94% speak English and 5% also speak Spanish. 75% missed 0 or 1 day of school, an indicator of feeling safe and happy to be at school. 72% report that there is an adult in school that cares about them. 69% of Hispanic/Latino students feel safe compared to 80% overall. The school staff will work with ELAC and students to determine the source of this gap. There are no other significant subgroups and the Hispanic subgroup remains small, which may be a contributing factor.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
49709610000000|Twin Hills Union Elementary|6|Apple Blossom 5th grade students completed the California Healthy Kids Survey in 2018. 85% of students report feeling safe at school. More girls than boys report feeling safe. 97% of students missed 0 or 1 day of school in the year, which is indicative of feeling safe and respected at school. 84% report being happy to be at this school all or most of the time. To address students social and emotional needs, and provide support for those who do not feel safe, we implemented ToolBox. All teachers and most instructional assistants have been trained. This school year we implemented Peaceful Playground. Students in grades 3-5 are being trained as recess conflict managers. All students in the school will receive peaceful playground practices training by experts from Peaceful Playground. Restorative practices are implemented to help students make amends for poor or hurtful choices. Parents are informed if students are sent to the office. Our teachers are respectful, involved and caring. They provide safe and welcoming classrooms with engaging curriculum.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
29664150000000|Twin Ridges Elementary|6|The Twin Ridges Elementary School District does take the California Healthy Kids Survey, but does not receive valid data. With one school having six students and the other under 100 our participating class sizes are too small to generate data. Numbers are not provided because they have not reached the minimum for reporting purposes. This often happens in our Smarter Balanced Results as well. We continue to take the survey to assist the county office of education in having a 100% participation rate.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
29102980126227|Twin Ridges Home Study Charter|6|92% of those who completed the California Healthy Kids Survey said TRHS school sites are in good repair in regards to safety. 92% of those who completed the California Healthy Kids Survey also reported their child feels safe and connected at school. An identified area of growth that has been addressed this year was the need for additional supervision staff and student safety measures on enrichment class days. The staff and parents addressed this with a parent sign in/sign out system. Regular head counts taken during classes, and more parent and staff supervision before and after classes. We are seeing positive results with parents, students and staff utilizing a system for improved student safety and supervision. Parents and staff are pleased with the outcomes.|2019-11-07|Twin Ridges Home Study Charter School has seen many administrative staffing changes over the past two years. The teachers, staff, and parents report in stakeholder feedback meetings they see a positive change in the school climate, day to day operations and programming offered to students.|Met|2019
51714640107318|Twin Rivers Charter|6|Using this question as a discussion prompt, TRCS will continue to review how to ensure students and our school community (parents/community members and students) feel safe at school. While TRCS has completed ALICE training, participates in regular lock down and safety drills, has a published TRCS School Safety Plan this question may also address emotional safety (SEL) which is an area we continue to work on.  I feel supported by the school administration and my colleagues at TRCS. I feel my child is supported by the teachers and school administration. I feel supported by my teachers and school administration.  97.2% TRCS Staff Strongly Agree or Agree 87.3% Parents/Community Members Strongly Agree or Agree 87.2% Students Strongly Agree or Agreed  We provide a positive school climate for students & staff. I feel safe at TRCS. TRCS provides a positive school climate for students, particularly my child feel safe at TRCS. I feel safe at TRCS.  100% Staff Strongly Agree or Agree 90.5% Parents/Community Strongly Agree or Agree 85% Students Strongly Agree or Agree|2019-10-09||Met|2019
34765050000000|Twin Rivers Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered annually to students in grades 7 – 12. A district developed survey was administered during the 2017-18 school year to students in grade 5. The surveys includes items in a variety of domains measuring school climate and safety.  Key Findings: - 53% of 5th graders had favorable responses to school culture and climate questions. - School Connectedness responses for agree or strongly agree at secondary sites was 59% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th, 42% for 10th and 11th grade, and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups. - School Safety responses for strongly agree at secondary sites was 60% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th grade, 42% for 10th and 11th grade and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups. –The school connectedness and safety responses showed a small decline from the previous year administration of the CHKS at 7th and 11th grades but also showed gains of 6% at 9th grade. –Efforts to increase school connectedness for secondary sites includes the use of Activity Directors. These positions contribute to increased student engagement before, during, and after school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
49709790000000|Two Rock Union|6|We administer the California Healthy Kids Survey each spring to grades 3-6.   In our most recent climate survey, we noted that parents and students have differing perceptions of school climate and culture. While parents feel that bullying is an issue, students do not. We also noted that data varied significantly from grade level to grade level. We also noted that not all students have adults they connect with, and that not all students feel they have a voice in decisionmaking at school. Parents expressed an interest in improving our enrichments and school lunch program.  We have taken action in each of these areas. Throughout the month of October, we focused on bullying education with both students and families. We have also developed a series of steps that enable all adults on campus to respond to incidents of alleged bullying consistently and with uniform steps. In addition, we have developed a "Caring Circle" of students, where staff have identified students who need additional adult support and connection, and we have assigned adults beyond the classroom teacher to foster relationships with identified students. We are also going through a school lunch program review this year and have added a variety of new enrichment opportunities this fall.|2019-10-17|One of our challenges is our ongoing turnover of families, given the predominance of military families enrolled at our school. Some families will remain for 3-4 years, while others may stay for less than one year. This impacts the continuity of our data, as well, since we are never surveying the same group for two years in a row. We have also had a significant turnover of staff in the past two years, with over 75% new staff, including teachers, leadership, and support staff. This dramatically impacts our programs and practices, and we believe that we cannot compare data from two years ago with current data. We work to collect parent and community input through a variety of informal means on an ongoing basis as a way to measure progress and needs.|Met|2019
23656150000000|Ukiah Unified|6|The results from the surveys show that there is an overall increase in the percent of students who feel connected to school and a decrease in the percent of students who feel safe at school on the Healthy Kid Survey, although the percent increased on the District’s Student Survey, which is a larger sample size of students. We feel this is due to the heightened number of school shootings nationwide. All schools continue to practice safety drills, including active shooter drills, and provide training for staff. In addition, the District continues to invest in increased counseling at the elementary and secondary levels.  Ukiah USD Student Survey Results I have at least one teacher, counselor or staff member who knows me as a person?              6-12 2018-2019     57% 2017-2018     54%    I feel physically safe at school?              6-12 2018-2019     62% 2017-2018     54%  I feel emotionally safe at school?                                                         6-12 2018-2019     59% 2017-2018     54%            Ukiah USD Healthy Kids Survey Results School Connectedness (high)  5th            7th           11th 2018-2019     62%   58%   42% 2016-2017     67%   58%   41% 2014-2015     64%   53%   36%  Feels Safe at School   5th            7th          11th 2018-2019     66%   59%   56% 2016-2017     87%   64%   66% 2014-2015     84%   66%   61%|2019-11-12||Met|2019
08618200137729|Uncharted Shores Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
43697080000000|Union Elementary|6|Annually, Union School District distributes a Perception Survey to all students in grades 4-8. The survey is based on a 5 point scale (Disagree to Agree) from which scores are averaged. In 2018-2019, USD students reported the average score of 4.1 regarding their perception of school safety, by responding to the statement, “When I am at school, I feel I am safe.” The following statements and averages represent student responses related to a sense of belonging and connectedness at school. “My teacher listens to my ideas” - 3.9. “My principal cares about me” - 4.1. “My teacher believes I can learn” - 4.3. “Students at my school treat me with respect” - 3.7. “I am safe from bullies” - 3.8. Examples of programs and events that support these results include Project Cornerstone, Where Everyone Belongs (WEB), SLED (Students Leading Education), positive behavior incentives, school-wide rallies and events, Smart Start, and Digital Citizenship lessons.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
29664070000000|Union Hill Elementary|6|UHSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey each year to 5th and 7th grade students.  The results of the survey are reported to the Board of Trustees once the results are analyzed.  The 2019 analysis (survey taken October 2018) resulted in a finding of overall positive results regarding school connectedness, motivation and relationships at school.   * School Connectedness Rated as High = increased 26%  * Caring Adult Relationships Rated as High = increased 22%  * Academic Motivation Rated as High = increased 22%   Areas of concern included the increase in vaping (+3%) and an increase in chronic sadness (18%) reported by students. Although there was a drop in students mean rumors (-7%) or bullying (-8%) both are still reported as a concern by students.   Parent results remain positive (Agree/Strongly Agree) with regard to the majority of school climate indicators (safe place, academic success, student motivation, caring adults, and opportunities for participation).  There was an increase in parents feeling the school encourages parent involvement and parents feeling welcome to participate in school.  Most parents (97%) feel the school has adults who really care about students.  Parent are still concerned about the number of trauma-based student incidents the district is experiencing.    As a result of analysis the district continues with implementation of an extensive behavior support plan that includes a Board Certified Behavior Analyst and 3 registered behavior technicians to support teachers in students in behavior modification.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
29664076027197|Union Hill Elementary|6|UHSD administers the California Healthy Kids Survey each year to 5th and 7th grade students.  The results of the survey are reported to the Board of Trustees once the results are analyzed.  The 2019 analysis (survey taken October 2018) resulted in a finding of overall positive results regarding school connectedness, motivation and relationships at school.   * School Connectedness Rated as High = increased 26%  * Caring Adult Relationships Rated as High = increased 22%  * Academic Motivation Rated as High = increased 22%   Areas of concern included the increase in vaping (+3%) and an increase in chronic sadness (18%) reported by students. Although there was a drop in students mean rumors (-7%) or bullying (-8%) both are still reported as a concern by students.   Parent results remain positive (Agree/Strongly Agree) with regard to the majority of school climate indicators (safe place, academic success, student motivation, caring adults, and opportunities for participation).  There was an increase in parents feeling the school encourages parent involvement and parents feeling welcome to participate in school.  Most parents (97%) feel the school has adults who really care about students.  Parent are still concerned about the number of trauma-based student incidents the district is experiencing.    As a result of analysis the district continues with implementation of an extensive behavior support plan that includes a Board Certified Behavior Analyst and 3 registered behavior technicians to support teachers in students in behavior modification.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
12626790111708|Union Street Charter|6|Over 97% of respondents on the parent survey agreed or strongly agreed that the school fosters a positive school climate. To maintain this level of parent satisfaction, USC will provide communication opportunities for parents including: school and classroom news (including information about curriculum), publishing staff contact information, a parent handbook, IEP meetings for special education, quality conferences, an up to date website, and an open door policy for the Principal's office.  A survey is given to students in grades three through five. 93% of students agree that the school has a positive climate, they feel part of the school family and it is a safe place to be. To maintain this level of student satisfaction USC will continue to teach Second Step, offer mindfulness lessons, and conflict management.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
30103060133959|Unity Middle College High|6|•Over 75% of parents are satisfied or highly satisfied with teaching staff and classroom instruction.  •90% of Unity parents are satisfied or highly satisfied with their opportunities for parent participation •50% of Unity parents expressed interest in having a full-time counselor at Unity in the future. •75% of Unity parents believe bullying at Unity is minimal. The above survey questions directly aligned to the LCAP priorities. Parents’ perceptions of instruction and classroom materials align to priorities 2, 3 and 7. The bullying question aligns with Priority 6. The consistent area of strength based on the survey was student support and student learning. The largest area of growth is the need for a full-time counselor for Unity students. Unity will continue to administer the California Healthy Kids survey to ensure consistent and accurate comparison can occur between Unity and schools statewide.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
10621660114553|University High|6|UHS has used a school climate survey for the last seven years. The survey is administered every year and asks questions specific to our school and the school climate. The survey is given to our students in the spring of each year and the School Board reviews the results either in its June or August meeting.  The school has two goals it uses to measure the climate standard.  The school's goals are the following:  • The percent of students suspended will be less than 5% and expulsion rate less than .5%.   For last year, this goal was achieved as our rates were .004% for suspension rate (2 students/488) and 0% for expulsion rate.  • The Attendance rate for the school year will be greater than 97%.  For the 2018-19 school year, the goal was achieved as our rates were 98%.|2019-10-03||Met|2019
19647331938885|University High School Charter|6|SCHOOL CLIMATE: SAFETY DATA & MEANING:  *Gender results did not vary much in terms of overall safety in the school.  However, both genders feel safer in the neighborhood around the school than in the school. *Grade level results demonstrate that grades 9th - 11th feel less safe in our school than the 12th graders.  However, all groups feel safer in the neighborhood around the school than in the school. *Student group results indicate that our English Learners and Special Ed students feel relatively safer than all other student groups.  *For the following statement: "If you told a teacher or other adult at this school that another student was bullying me, he or she would try to help me." Student responses demonstrate that amongst all student groups, the African American group felt the least supported.  *For the following statement: "Adults at this school have talked to me about what to do if someone makes me feel uncomfortable." Student responses indicate that only the English Learner student group feels the most supported, all other student groups only about 58% of them felt supported.  *For the following statement: "if There is an adult on campus whom I trust and can talk to no matter what is bothering me." Student responses indicate that the 12th grade student group felt the most supported of all the grade levels.  Asian and English Learner student groups felt the most supported,  57% of all other groups felt supported.  USE:  The use of these data will help our school communicate more efficiently to students regarding the resources of support available on campus.  Our school site will do a better job communicating to students the out of classroom personnel available to assist them. ================================================ SCHOOL CLIMATE:  CONNECTEDNESS DATA & MEANING:  *Gender and grade level results do not vary in the overall connectedness to the school.  Asian student group is the highest indicating an overall connectedness to the school.  *For the following statement:  "I am happy to be at this school," 9th grade responses were the highest amongst all grade level along with the English Learner and Special Ed student group.  *For the following statement:  "I feel like I am part of the school,"the 10th grade and the Special Ed student group indicated the lowest. *For the following statement:  "I feel close to people at this school,"the Special Ed student group indicated the lowest percentage *For the following statement:  "The teachers at this school treat students fairly,"11th grade and the African American indicated the lowest percentage. USE: The overall data indicates that the student groups in need of most support in some areas are the African Americans and the special ed students.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
37680490138313|University Prep|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
10623800138347|University Prep -  Fresno|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
36678920138321|University Prep - San Bernardino|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
56725536120620|University Preparation Charter School at CSU Channel Islands|6|In the 2018-2019 school year, UPCS administered a local climate survey utilizing, Youth Truth, as a measure for student perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The survey was given to all 3-8 grades students in the late spring of 2019.  The students in grades 3-5 took an elementary survey while students in 6-8 took a middle school survey.   DATA On Key Measures, the elementary students had the following average scores on a scale of 1-5 with 5 being best: Student Engagement, 2.90; Academic Rigor, 2.45: Instructional Methods, 2.61; Personal Relationships, 2.78; Classroom Culture, 2.15.  On Key Measures, the middle school students had the following average scores: Student Engagement, 3.46; Academic Rigor, 3.75; Relationships with teachers, 3.48; Relationships with Peers 3.48; School Culture, 3.41. School Safety, the 6-8 grades average scores were (1 = strongly disagree, 3 = neither agree or disagree, and 5 = strongly agree):  I feel safe from harm while…:In my home, 4.3; In the neighborhood where I live, 4.06; In my class, 4.03: Going to and from school, 3.87; At school in general, 3.84; On school property outside my school building, 3.72; In the hallways, bathrooms and locker rooms at my school, 3.62. Perceptions of conflict: At school, I must always be ready to fight to defend themselves, 2.6: Many students at my school go out of their way to treat other students badly, 2.42; There is conflict in my school based on race, culture, religion, sexual orientation, gender, or disabilities, 2.01; Students get into physical fights at my school, 2.03; Adults at my school try to stop bullying/harassment, 3.85; I usually try to help other students who are being bullied/harassed, 3.72. REFLECTION The school safety measures came out very strong and are widely above the average of California schools that utilize Youth Truth.  We are glad to see that middle school children do not perceive there to be pervasive bullying when it comes to race, culture, religion, sexual orientation, gender, or disabilities.  We would like to see a continued increase in students feeling of safety at school, which would also lead to further connectedness at school.  It is evident that our 6-8 students have more positive feelings, overall, about school, learning, and relationships.  We celebrate that our adolescent students feel so good about school, how well they are challenged at school, and their relationships at school.  In looking at the elementary, the areas that ranked the highest and above the CA average, are engagement and relationships.  The lowest areas, that fell below the CA average for elementary, were academic rigor and culture.  When looking at the subsets for those two areas it includes students’ feelings about homework, challenge in class work, student’s interest in learning, and relevance to real life.   We are continuing to disaggregate the data and share it out with teachers and stakeholders.|2019-09-27||Met|2019
45701360106013|University Preparatory|6|During fall of 2019, a climate survey was administered.  Data was analyzed from 6th and 10th grade students.  Key learnings from the 6th grade survey are as follows:  97% of the students report that the staff expects them to work hard and achieve.  95% of the students feel welcome at U-Prep.  97% report that their teachers are available to answer questions and help them as needed.  78% of the students indicated that they felt safe in all areas on campus.  97% feel that there are clear expectations regarding behavior and conduct.  79% reported that there are two or more adults at school they could talk to if they needed help with a problem; 94% report that there is at least one adult they could talk to.  6th grade students reported that the following academic support programs were most helpful to their academic success:  Tutorial (84%), Friday Office Hours (50%), and BRIDGE/Study Hall/Math Lab (30%).  95% report that they enjoy going to school at U-Prep.  93% report that the campus is clean and well-maintained.   Key learnings from the 11th survey are as follows:  99% of the students report that the staff expects them to work hard and achieve.  86% of the students feel welcome at U-Prep.  100% report that their teachers are available to answer questions and help them as needed.  65% reported feeling safe in all areas on campus; the lower parking lot was reported as an area of concern.  93% reported that there are clear expectations for behavior and conduct at school.  88% reported that there are two or more adults they could talk to if they needed help with a problem; 94% report that there is at least one adult they could talk to.  11th grade students reported that the following academic supports were most helpful to their academic success:  Resource Center (54%), Individual Time with Teachers (46%), Tutorial (44%).  81% report that they enjoy going to school at U-Prep.  88% report that the campus is clean and well-maintained.  Areas of strength include the high percentage of students feeling welcome and safe in most all areas on campus.  Sense of connectedness and safety is further reflected in the high percentage of students reporting that there are 2 or more adults they could speak to with a problem.  A high percentage of students enjoy coming to school, which also serves as measure of their connectedness.  Sixth and eleventh grade school students identified different academic supports being most useful to their success.  This shows a high level of access and utilization of support programs.  A high percentage of 6th and 11th graders report that they enjoy going to school at U-Prep; this illustrates strong connectedness among both groups.  To increase student sense of safety in the lower lot, additional supervision will be added after school and in the evening for school events.|2019-11-06|In the 2018-2019 school year, 100% of the school staff were trained in ALICE school safety practices. In fall of 2019, class visits were conducted by the school safety team; students were trained in age-appropriate ALICE school safety practices.  The school safety plan is reviewed annually by the safety team; following updates, the safety plan is shared/approved by the U-Prep School Board by March 1.  School safety training occurs annually with all staff at the August Staff Development Day.  Parents are also kept apprised of student trainings, school safety programs and practices; feedback is received through survey data as well as parent groups.|Met|2019
43104390113431|University Preparatory Academy Charter|6|UPA makes use of several survey mechanisms to collect and respond to student feedback regarding the culture, environment, and safety of our campus. Among these survey instruments is the California Healthy Kids Survey, given biannually to all grade levels. The most recent survey, given in January 2019, indicates high levels of connectedness to school in the 7th grade (69%) and in the 11th grade (63%), with a noticeable dip occurring in the 12th grade (41%) and the 8th grade, reporting 48% of students feeling highly connected to the school. In the 10th grade, 58% reported feeling highly connected to the school. Only an average of 10% reported a low level of connectedness to the school. UPA is scheduled to give the CHKS again in January 2021.  In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey, UPA annually issues a perception survey to students, parents, and staff. This survey has been developed by the New Teacher Center, a national non-profit dedicated to education research. The survey has been edited for local context and includes LCAP priority items in order to gather parent and student input. The results of these surveys are reported to the Board of Trustees annually.   The WASC visiting committee in March 2018 produced a recommended that UPA update their school safety plan. In order to address the survey results and the recommendation of the WASC committee, UPA conducted an in-depth review and update of the site safety plan in LCAP.   Per the CHKS, an average of 60.17% of students reported feeling safe on campus, and an average of 11.17% disagreed with the statement “I feel safe in my school.” In response, UPA has implemented several additional safety protocols in the 18-19 school year, with major safety upgrades to continue throughout the 19-20 school year. Examples of such upgrades include an electronic locking system for the doors, additional campus supervisors, and the construction of a perimeter fence to enclose the campus. Each of these upgrades has been written into the site safety plan, and prioritized in LCAP.    Based on previous CHKS and perception surveys wherein students reported high levels of academic stress, and the need for support in the area of mental health UPA drafted LCAP goals for the establishment of a mental health program on campus, which is currently in its fourth year of operation. This program consists of a dedicated on-site therapy service, several informational presentations given by contractors such as Kaiser Permanente, and a “Mental Health Awareness Week” in which students are presented with resources and techniques to aid with mental wellness. Based on the success and demand for these services, in the 19-20 school year, UPA will add an additional clinician to the therapy program.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
54105460119602|University Preparatory High|6|The students at University Preparatory High School completed the California Healthy Kids Survey in Spring 2019.  This survey was administered during the Spring semester in Homeroom.  The overall results show that approximately 65-70% of our student population are happy and feel safe and accepted at UPHS.  This number has dropped due to the recent events in our state and country regarding school safety.  At UPHS, the students expressed positive feelings of being connected and supported by teachers and staff.  Considering our school is on an open college campus, a majority of our students feel safe.  The biggest challenges for our school include helping students to understand the implication of Alcohol, Drug, Tobacco, and E-Cigarette uses.  We have seen an increase in the use of E-Cigarettes.  Another challenge we face at UPHS is cyberbullying depression.  A number of students feel extreme pressure either internally or from their family to exceed and succeed at UPHS.  Finally, we are always working to help students understand the damage caused by cyber-bullying.  Too many students reported being cyber-bullied at least once during the school year.  Based on the data from the survey, we will continue presenting lessons increasing student awareness about drugs, alcohol, tobacco use along with mental health and cyber-bullying.  These lessons are designed to help students be aware of their own physical and mental health and what they can do to reach out for help.|2019-10-09|The primary tool for lesson presentations regarding the above concerns is our Homeroom class.  This class meets four times a week for 25 minutes.  It is during this time that lessons on life skills, academic and emotional strategies and other life long lessons are taught.  These lessons are designed by staff and students and presented in one-week units.|Met|2019
19647330132027|University Preparatory Value High|6|In the spring of 2019, Value Schools administered a survey to all stakeholders: Parents, Students and Staff.  For the student survey, 355 students responded to the survey which is about 75% of the student body.  Below are 5 questions that the administration, School Site Council and the Value Schools Home Office used to determine how the students are living the values of the school and determine the climate of the school. Question #1- Students at my school will help a classmate- 62% of the 355 students surveyed said that they agree or strongly agree that students would help a classmate.  This data proves that students are practicing Value #4- Building Community by looking for opportunities to serve their community.  The school has decided to work on this by providing more awareness around cyber bullying, implicit bias and bonding activities.  In the 2019-20 school year, Leadership Council will provide monthly awareness months and educate students on Hispanic culture, breast cancer awareness and prostate cancer to name a few.   Question #2- My school encourages me to make healthy choices about in life- 68% of the 355 students surveyed said that they agreed or strongly agreed that the school encourages the students to make healthy choices.  In 2018-29, UPVHS talked with the students about the Value Schools Wellness Policy and encouraged all stakeholder, including students, to make contributions to the policy.  All 10th grade students participated in Sophomore Seminar, which included two units on Health Education which included topics like eating correctly, sex, mental health services and relationships.  Moving forward, UPVHS plans to use weekly Community Times to educate more students about making healthier choices in their lives.  Question #3- The school provides counseling for students who are depressed or troubled- 56% of the 355 students surveyed said that they agreed or strongly agreed that the school provides counseling for students who are depressed or troubled.  UPVHS has partnerships with local counseling agencies like Magnolia Place, Starview and Uplift to provide counseling services to both students and their parents.  UPVHS decided after the survey result to hire a full-time Mental Health Counselor for the 2019-20 school year.  Additionally, UPVHS has added another resource Sunrise Community Counseling Center to meet with students on Wednesdays.  Additionally during  our advisory class, the new Mental Health Counselor provided an information center and activity to educate students on what UPVHS has to offer in regards to counseling.    UPVHS is in its 5th year, and is always looking for ways to increase the positive school climate.  All stakeholders have the ability to make a change.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
36750690000000|Upland Unified|6|Upland Unified School District administered a self-created online survey during the 2018-19 school year. Survey samples included 675 fifth grade, 497 seventh grade, 414 ninth grade, and 439 eleventh grade students. In addition, 31 non-traditional (continuation) students participated. In elementary schools, 79% of fifth grade students agreed or strongly agreed that the adults at their school care about them, while 6 % disagreed or strongly disagreed, and 15% were unsure. At our secondary (middle and high) schools, 77% of seventh grade students agreed or strongly agreed the adults at their school care about them, while 7% disagreed or strongly disagreed, and 16% were unsure; Ninth Grade: 71% agreed or strongly agreed, 12% disagreed or strongly disagreed, and 17% were unsure; Eleventh Grade: 70% agreed or strongly agreed, 16% disagreed or strongly disagreed, and 14% were unsure.  Student perception of safety at district schools is as follows: Grade 5: 79% agreed or strongly agreed that they felt safe at school; 8% disagreed or strongly disagreed; 13% were unsure; Grade 7: 80% agreed or strongly agreed that they felt safe at school; 8% disagreed or strongly disagreed; 12% were unsure; Grade 9: 70% agreed or strongly agreed that they felt safe at school; 16% disagreed or strongly disagreed; 14% were unsure; Grade 11: 71% agreed or strongly agreed that they felt safe at school; 18% disagreed or strongly disagreed; 11% were unsure. Students' safety, including access to a caring adult, are significant priorities. The district has developed a Climate and Culture team, which is identifying practices that promote students' feelings of safety and connectedness. The Climate and Culture Team has supported the implementation of Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports, which is a proactive approach to establishing the behavioral supports and social culture needed for all students in a school to achieve social, emotional and academic success. In addition, schools are engaged in innovation, including the development of two Wellness Centers and the implementation of Capturing Kids' Hearts at Upland High School.|2019-10-25||Met|2019
27659790136218|Uplift California North Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
42750100135590|Uplift California Santa Barbara|6||||Not Met|2019
27659790136010|Uplift California South Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
27659790135111|Uplift Monterey|6||||Not Met|2019
17769760000000|Upper Lake Unified|6|The largest focus for our school district has been around the climate within and between our schools.  Our stakeholders (internal and external) believe that when students have respectful relationships with adults on campus and each other, they are in the best place to learn.  In analyzing our CHKS (California Healthy Kids Survey), it was noted that the majority of students don't feel there is an adult that cares about them on each campus throughout the district.  The learning and actions that are put into place are focused in updated school wide expectations for staff and students through our PBIS framework and focus on quality tier 1 instruction for all students, including restorative circles and additional supports for our struggling students. Our suspension rates have dropped significantly but not equally across sites.  The elementary reported an 80% drop in suspensions while there was a slight increase at the middle school and minimal change at the high school.  This data analysis is being addressed through the attention being paid to relationships, restorative circles and a move for increased intervention and suspension alternatives.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
26102640124990|Urban Corps of San Diego County Charter|6|1. Data - The data results allowed the LEA to learn that the overall school climate is positive, with the majority of students and families finding they receive appropriate supports within academic and vocational training, and support services.  Still, there was indication that the school could improve methods in communicating support services to all students in order to improve student retention.   2. Meaning - The LEA has a unique mission to provide education services to adults age 18-25 who are enrolled in job training programs certified through the California Conservation Corps. As adults, students face a number of obstacles in maintaining a work/school balance conducive with the needs of their families.  The LEA serves a 100% un-duplicated population, our survey results reflect the needs of English language learners, socio-economically disadvantaged, and/or foster youth.  As such, their is  limited need for disagregation of results.  There is a negligible difference of responses between race, gender, and/or sexual orientation. Identified strengths include connecting students to the support services needed to succeed in the program, such as transportation, health care, housing, child care, CalFresh, and mental health resources.  Further evidence of the LEA's strengths is the ability to provide academic interventions and narrow the achievement gap within mathematics and literacy.  However, the LEA sometimes faces challenges in securing support services within a timely manner which has negative impact on student retention and graduation rates.   3. Use: The LEA has established a goal to improve the graduation rate by increasing student retention.  The LEA has implemented two new school-wide initiatives to improve retention and graduation rates.  Part 1 comes from the need to improve staff/student relationships in order to build a more positive and supportive school community.  This will involve a training program in which staff and students participate in self awareness, communication, and relationship building workshops.  Part 2 of this initiative will focus on data analysis to drive decision making and continuous improvement practices.  The LEA has organized key stakeholders into data collection focus groups to identify trends in student performance, behavior, and social emotional learning data. This data will be used to refine intervention strategies within a multi tiered system of support.  It is anticipated that this initiative will increase student retention and graduation rates for the 19/20 school year and beyond.|2019-06-14||Met|2019
37683380135913|Urban Discovery Academy Charter|6|UDA utilizes climate surveys annually or every other year to measure student and parent perceptions of student safety and connectedness schoolwide. The Student Climate Survey and Parent Satisfaction Survey are both customized for Urban Discovery Academy.   DATA In our latest implementation of the K-8 student survey, 90% of 2nd to 8th grade students reported they feel safe or very safe in school. 87% of students reported they “agree or strongly agree” to the statement, “When I am at school I feel I belong.”   On the most recent implementation of the high school survey, 71% of high school students reported feeling safe at school and 85% reported feeling comfortable attending school. 74% of students reported feeling like they “belong.”  MEANING There is a need to continue to focus on school safety, particularly at the high school level. School safety feels stronger at the K-8 level, still with room to grow, but there is a great need to focus on school climate and connectedness at the high school level where the program, curriculum or relationships are still developing.  USE This year, there is a continued strengthened focus on school safety through inclusiveness, cultural proficiency, and restorative practices training, to positively impact instruction, relationship building, socio-emotional development, and parent collaboration.   Staffing updates include the addition of a full-time school psychologist (last year), an interventionist, extended day coordinator, and community liaison.   All levels are continuing to focus on the refining of and schoolwide implementation of restorative practices. At the middle school and high school level, relationship and community building are an enhanced focus of the developing advisory program. School climate and behavior norms have also been redeveloped in recent years, with additional teacher training and collaboration to support a strengthened school culture. At the TK-8th grade level, socio-emotional learning has continued to be a focus. Cyber security training has also continued to be strengthened schoolwide.  In addition to staffing, there has been an enhanced focus on parent engagement and collaboration through ongoing trainings, community collaboration forums, and home visits.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
01100170125567|Urban Montessori Charter|6|UMCS uses Panorama to administer the CORE Climate and Culture survey to students multiple times per year in order to seek input from students. Our student survey results showed that students would like for their teacher to know more about them, their interests, and their home life but do feel like their interests are reflected in their work at school. Students last year shared that they would like clarity in regard to discipline and norms. Students also feel like their teacher knows how they learn best and can identify their general strengths, areas for growth, and learning style. The survey also showed that students recognize the attempts toward personalization shown by faculty and staff. Students acknowledge having great flexibility in the outputs used to show their learning and that once they master a skill, they can report to their teachers and move on to the next task. White students and students who identify as two or more races reported higher on items related to Growth Mindset as compared to Latinx and African American students.|2019-10-24|Moving our Upper Campus into another new facility last year was a challenge for our climate and culture. Additionally we new Head of School to our community.  Throughout the year we continued to work with our Climate and Culture Committee to reevaluate our behavioral tier system and create examples and standard language to use when supporting student behavior. We linked this to a refreshed PBIS system that we would continue to develop and rollout schoolwide this year. We restated expectations for each area or focal point of the school. We met as a level to identify and target hotspots, supervision strategies, and preventative measures we could take to minimize incidents and maximize respect, safety, and community. Levels got together to work in teams to name ways that we could explicitly teach and carry out the PBIS work. During this August’s inservice, we focused eight to twelve hours on the student support training. We also hosted an all-staff Foundations of Implicit Bias and De-Centering Whiteness Training for Educators during this time and invited board members and school administration to attend.|Met|2019
48705730000000|Vacaville Unified|6|To assess school climate, our district uses the Healthy Kids Survey and a local survey in alternating years. We use this data to inform our actions, especially our third LCAP goal, which is to "Ensure all school sites have safe, welcoming, healthy and inclusive climates for all students and their families, so that all students are in their classes ready to learn." Specific actions at all schools sites were developed based on this data and staff at those schools continue to work to monitor our progress on this goal, as well as developing ways to improve.  Feel safe at school Overall = 82.6% 5th = 86.9% 7th = 76.6% 9th = 86.1% 11th = 82.2% Feel like a part of the school Overall = 72.2% 5th = 82.5% 7th = 68% 9th = 71.1% 11th = 61.6%|2019-10-24||Met|2019
33752420000000|Val Verde Unified|6|Val Verde Unified administers the California Healthy Kids Survey every other year.  The survey is given to students at grades 5, 7, 9, and 11.  Data reported below represents favorable responses from the 2013-2014, 2015-2016, and 2017-2018 school years.  Two of the key indicators report on the student’s positive attitudes towards school connectedness and school safety.  Overall data reported in response to School Connectedness 2013-2014 school year for 5th grade 63%, 7th grade 46%, 9th grade 40%, and 11th grade 39%. School year 2015-16 5th grade 64%, 7th grade 58%, 9th grade 51%, and 11th grade 40%. School year 2017-18 5th grade 64%, 7th grade 55%, 9th grade 51%, and 11th grade 43%.   Overall data reported in response to School Safety 2013-2014 school year for 5th grade 56%, 7th grade 58%, 9th grade 56%, and 11th grade 57%. School year 2015-16 5th grade 81%, 7th grade 66%, 9th grade 65%, and 11th grade 58%. School year 2017-2018 5th grade 79%, 7th grade 63%, 9th grade 68%, and 11th grade 60%.  Overall the 2017-2018 data shows that throughout all grade the instances of verbal bullying has decreased at least 3%.                  The use of an additional data collection tool, our annual survey, allowed us to identify that students feel more connected to the schools initially (grades 3, 6 and 9), but that sense of connectedness declines as they progress through the school.  Additionally, we have identified the student groups with the least sense of connectedness are American Indian, African-American, Pacific Islander, Foster Youth and Special Education at the elementary level and American Indian, African-American, and Pacific Islander at the secondary level.  Student groups with the least sense of safety are American Indian, African-American, Foster Youth, and Special Education at the elementary level and African-American, White and Special Education at the secondary level.  No significant difference in sense of connectedness or safety were seen for income level or gender student groups at the elementary level nor income level, gender, or foster status student groups at the secondary level.  In response to the student data, we have continued to build capacity around Social Emotional Learning (SEL) and Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) with the addition of 14 Counseling Therapists and a Teacher on Special Assignment.  Our annual survey was modified to monitor the areas of School Connectedness and Sense of School Safety in 2017-2018 to help inform progress along with an SEL survey administered multiple times during the school year to proactively identify students in need of additional support.|2019-05-07|To learn more about our school conditions and climate survey results, disaggregated by student groups, for each school site, please visit our website at www.valverde.edu. Results from the latest California Healthy Kids Survey can be found at:     http://surveydata.wested.org/resources/Val_Verde_Unified_1718_CSCS.pdf   http://surveydata.wested.org/resources/Val_Verde_Unified_1718_Elem_CHKS.pdf  http://surveydata.wested.org/resources/Val_Verde_Unified_1718_Sec_CHKS.pdf|Met|2019
19753090130955|Valiant Academy of Los Angeles|6||||Not Met|2019
37680490131169|Valiant Academy of Southern California|6||||Not Met|2019
42750100136630|Valiant Santa Barbara|6||||Not Met|2019
19101990132605|Valiente College Preparatory Charter|6|Students are given a link for a Google form survey that they complete independently.  The results are automatically organizes all of the results into graphs.  Results are then reviewed by the admin team and then shared with key stakeholders.  These results lead the decision making process and guide actions that will be taken.  Students have expressed some concerns over the quality of the food that is served for lunch.  The food meets the USDA dietary guidelines of the My Plate nutritional standards for schools.  Their complaints stem from the fact that many students are not accustomed to the texture and flavors of the foods that are served.  We have done several things to try to help this issue such as taste tests for families, a student focus group, student input on upcoming menus, and school-wide discussions with the food vendor.  Students also shared concerns about the homework that they were receiving.  We had a discussion with all of the teachers to remind them the importance of assigning meaningful homework and discussed the importance of ensuring that our students aren't assigned too much homework each night.  Students shared that they did feel safe at school and felt like they could talk to someone when they needed something.|2019-06-17|School climate is something that we are always working on.  We greatly value the input of all of our stakeholders and look for ways that we can improve.  We provide students various opportunities to share their opinions on things happening at school.  We have an open door policy for students and parents. We provide many different opportunities where parents, students, and staff can share concerns and or ideas.|Met|2019
19650780000000|Valle Lindo Elementary|6|Survey Data revealed strong stakeholder focus on social emotional learning, early childhood education, teacher quality, and mental health services. The survey results affirmed strong systems currently in place to address these needs. The areas and actions below are aligned to school and district plans. These actions are data driven and based on a continuous cycle of growth and improvement:   Social Emotional Learning (SEL) and support were identified as our top priority, both for students and staff. The LEA utilized several resources and personnel to begin to address this area of need at both school sites including Capturing Kids’ Hearts, Care Solace, Smart Social, Parent University, Character Counts, Paw Pride, and Pat on the Back.  We provide full-day kindergarten and transitional kindergarten (TK) services to  facilitate the transition from early learning to elementary education programs, including the social-emotional aspects of learning.  We recruit and retain effective teachers by providing competitive salaries and benefits, and classroom supplies and materials. High quality, school-based professional development provides on-site continued support in implementing instructional strategies and processes. Outside agency professional development/conferences and emotional support providers help create an atmosphere of caring and an attitude of kindness.   The district provides extended learning for students through summer school and after school academic enrichment opportunities. Opportunities include: dance, band, art, sports, and robotics.   Counseling, school-based mental health programs, specialized instructional support services, and mentoring are helping to improve students’ social skills. Services provided have resulted in a reduction in negative student interactions particularly during lunch and passing periods. Utilizing classroom (teacher-student) developed social contracts has resulted in an increase in student engagement and a reduction in out of class disciplinary referrals.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
05615800000000|Vallecito Union|6|On the 2018-19 California Healthy Kids Survey at 7th and 8th grades, 112 students were surveyed: 58 7th graders and 54 8th graders. Results from grade 7 relating to student perspectives on school climate and connectedness are listed below. Under each category, these are the percentages of students who indicated favorable responses (“Pretty much true” or “Very much true”) in regard to the subtopics under climate and connectedness: School Engagement and Supports: Caring Adult Relationships 76% High Expectations 82% Meaningful Participation 44% School Connectedness 76%   School Safety: School perceived as safe or very safe 82% Experienced any harassment or bullying 49% Mean rumors or lies spread about you 61% Been afraid of being beaten up 11% Seen a weapon on campus 21%   Mental Health: Experienced chronic sadness/hopelessness 41% Considered suicide 11%   Lifetime Substance Use: Any/all alcohol or other drugs 16% Marijuana 0% Any other drug or pill 2% Very drunk or high 7 or more times 0% Drunk or high on drugs at school 0% Cigarette, even 1 or 2 puffs 2% Electronic cigarette 6% Smokeless tobacco 2%   Current Substance Use: Any/all alcohol or other drugs 7% Marijuana 0% Binge drinking 2% Cigarette smoking 0% Smokeless tobacco 0% From review of data, the LEA noted that most in the cohort feel engaged and supported, while more than half of the 7th grade respondents did not indicate “meaningful participation” as “pretty much” or “very true.”  This revealed a challenge to enhance students’ sense of engagement in school activities and the decision-making process. While 82% responded that they felt school was “safe” or “very safe,” about half indicated they had experienced harassment or bullying and more than half felt that there had been lies or mean rumors spread about them. These results heightened the awareness that some students might not feel safe as recipients of bullying, harassment, or intentional misinformation being spread about them. The number of students who indicated they experienced chronic sadness or hopelessness at 41% suggested that mental health support would be beneficial. In response to survey results, the middle school implemented the StopIt App for anonymous reporting of bullying/harassment. The district provides paraprofessionals with Crisis Prevention Institute training, which benefits the entire district. Paraeducators deliver Second Step violence prevention lessons to classes. All three schools provide a violence-prevention/anti-bullying assembly or activity each year. A Positive Behavior Incentive Program (PBIP) has been established to help foster a positive, safe, healthy, and thriving climate and school culture at the middle school. VUSD hired a full-time counselor for the middle school in addition to a counselor that serves both elementary schools.|2019-10-16|Additional programs in VUSD that are targeted toward identified areas from the survey to enhance sense of belonging, physical and emotional safety, and participation where student participation and engagement has been noted include:  Project ALERT Curriculum, FNL Mentoring, Club Live, S.A.F.E. Self, Red Ribbon Week, Breaking Down the Walls, Attendance Support Team, Second Step Program, Virtues/Character Education, A Touch of Understanding, Meet and Greet Safety Patrol, Student Leadership, Family Resource Center, Student Partners in Service, RISE Sensory Room, Fit for the Future, Recycle Squad, ASL Club, Legends, Master Gardeners, and Class Buddy programs.|Met|2019
37684370000000|Vallecitos Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to all 5th thru 8th grade students and parents. There was a 73% response rate at elementary and a 78% response rate at middle school. Students at the elementary level reported 74% connectedness to school and a School Climate Index of 273 for middle school. Overall, middle school reported a School Climate Index of 298.|2019-10-08|The school social worker was hired in February 2019 and plays a key role at Vallecitos providing school counseling and social skills to students in need. He also gathered information appropriate in teaching social skills and anti-bullying techniques.|Met|2019
48705810115469|Vallejo Charter|6|The Vallejo City Unified School District (VCUSD) administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in early 2019 as one measure of school climate. The California School Staff Survey was administered at the same time.  The focus of this submission is students’ perceived safety at school (grades 7, 9, 11, and *NT,) students’ perceived safety at or outside of school (grade 5), students’ school connectedness (grades 5, 7, 9, 11, and *NT), and Perceived School Safety by school staff.  Longitudinal data in the areas of school connectedness and perceived safety at school demonstrate healthy growth at some grade levels and some decreases at others.  These will continue to be areas of focus and improvement.  A multi-year plan focused on Social Emotional Learning is being developed to address needs in this area.  California Healthy Kids Survey  School Connectedness – (High)     Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 30 20 17 - 2017-2018 35 21 18 33 2018-19 28 29 24 26  School Connectedness – (Low)  Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 21 25 24 - 2017-2018 14 22 25 16 2018-19 20 17 20 18   Perceived Safety at School (Very Safe or Safe)  Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 45 34 24 - 2017-2018 50 33 27 48 2018-19 42 32 32 47   Perceived Safety at School (Unsafe or Very unsafe)  Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 21 18 22 - 2017-2018 12 15 18 14 2018-19 18 16 13 9  Perceived Safety at or Outside of School  (All or Most of the time) – 2017-2018                 School Connectedness  Grade 5 - % 2018-19 At school 69 63 On way to and from school 79 78   Grade 5 -% 2018-19 Connectedness – High 41 39 Connectedness-Low 8 9                         California School Staff Survey  Safe place for students (strongly agree/agree) Safe place for staff (strongly agree/agree) 2017-2018 76% 76% 2018-19 78% 82%|2019-10-16||Met|2019
48705810000000|Vallejo City Unified|6|The Vallejo City Unified School District (VCUSD) administered the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in early 2019 as one measure of school climate. The California School Staff Survey was administered at the same time.  The focus of this submission is students’ perceived safety at school (grades 7, 9, 11, and *NT,) students’ perceived safety at or outside of school (grade 5), students’ school connectedness (grades 5, 7, 9, 11, and *NT), and Perceived School Safety by school staff.  Longitudinal data in the areas of school connectedness and perceived safety at school demonstrate healthy growth at some grade levels and some decreases at others.  These will continue to be areas of focus and improvement.  A multi-year plan focused on Social Emotional Learning is being developed to address needs in this area.  California Healthy Kids Survey  School Connectedness – (High)     Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 30 20 17 - 2017-2018 35 21 18 33 2018-19 28 29 24 26  School Connectedness – (Low)  Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 21 25 24 - 2017-2018 14 22 25 16 2018-19 20 17 20 18   Perceived Safety at School (Very Safe or Safe)  Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 45 34 24 - 2017-2018 50 33 27 48 2018-19 42 32 32 47   Perceived Safety at School (Unsafe or Very unsafe)  Grade 7 - % Grade 9 - %  Grade 11 - % NT - % 2015-2016 21 18 22 - 2017-2018 12 15 18 14 2018-19 18 16 13 9  Perceived Safety at or Outside of School  (All or Most of the time) – 2017-2018                 School Connectedness  Grade 5 - % 2018-19 At school 69 63 On way to and from school 79 78   Grade 5 -% 2018-19 Connectedness – High 41 39 Connectedness-Low 8 9                         California School Staff Survey  Safe place for students (strongly agree/agree) Safe place for staff (strongly agree/agree) 2017-2018 76% 76% 2018-19 78% 82%|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37756140000000|Valley Center-Pauma Unified|6|In Valley Center Pauma Unified School District, we created our own survey for our students regarding climate, in both English and Spanish. The results of the student survey are from roughly 860 students, 70.6% from middle school. 24.4% elementary and 5% from high schools. The data will be skewed toward the responses of our middle school students:   Are you happy at school? 77.4% Do teachers and adults care about you? 93.7% Do you get to do interesting things at school? 86.8% Do teachers and other adults treat students with respect? 92.4% Does your school help students solve conflicts with each other? 85% Does your school teacher students to care about each other and treat each other with respect? 90.9% Do teachers and other adults make it clear that bullying is not allowed? 94.3% If you tell an adult at school that you’ve been bullied, will they do something to help? 90.9% Do you feel safe at school? 87.8%  Our district and site, as well as all our other sites, are developing positive systems of support for our students, engaging not only our staff but our students in the process. We are setting clear expectations of behavior and modeling what appropriate behavior and words look like and sound like. As a district, we are working on PBIS at all of our schools, ensuring a community effort to support the positive growth of all students.  We have engaged with our local County on an Improvement Plan for not only academics but also school safety and climate. The strength of this work is that we are lifting student voices and student engagement throughout the process as we continue to strengthen our own commitment to  our students and their success as they launch from our high school to success in life.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647330122754|Valley Charter Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
50105045030234|Valley Charter High|6|School population is fairly evenly distributed between students who identify as male or female, with a small percentage of students who identify as non-binary or transgendered. Approximately 68% of students identify as straight, 1% as Gay or Lesbian, 12% as Bisexual, 9% as something else, and 10% declined to respond. We use this information to understand that we have a diverse population and the importance of providing appropriate support services to all students.   Approximately 48% percent identify as Latino or part Latino.  95% indicate they live at home with at least one parent or guardian.40% indicate their students are eligible for Free or Reduced Price meals, with 40% indicating they do not know if their student qualifies.   This information tells us we can strengthen our communication and outreach to make sure the students are getting what they need in this area. Approximately 10% of our families indicate they speak Spanish at home, and 95% indicate they understand English very well, which lets us know the importance of providing information and services in Spanish when necessary.73% of students report feeling academically motivated but with only about 52% indicating parents are highly involved.  There is an existing barrier to student achievement with the perception that parents are not involved and supportive.  Increasing parent engagement is a significant goal for our school for the 19-20 academic year. Some data tells us that students do not seem to feel that they have a voice in decisions at school or that they make a difference, with about 30% of student indicating this over several similar questions. This indicates we need to implement more opportunities for students to be involved in school issues. Feeling safe at school seems to be a concern with 34% of students indicating they feel safe, and 6% of students feeling unsafe.  As a result of this and other data, we have implemented additional safety procedures at crosswalks, provided more lockdown drills and discussions, and have  a more visible presence of Campus Security .  About 1/3 of the parents seem to feel that communication between teachers and parents is good; as a result of this information we will implement improved \patterns and methods of communicating with parents in the 19-20 school year by using more emails, newsletters,  and robo-calls. Although most students indicated they did not feel harassed, those who did indicated it was connected to gender identity or sexual preference or perceived identities and preferences.  The response to this will be to examine and implement programs promoting tolerance and acceptance, provide education around harassment preventions, and promote activities that bring diverse populations together. Drug use on campus appears to be minimal with over 90% of students reporting they have  never been offered, sold, or given an illegal drug and 6% of students indicating they have been offered drugs  1 time.|2019-10-30|Positive and concerted efforts are  being imlemented at VCHS to create a more involved and engaged parent population, including personal  email invitations to serve on committess, attend functions, and provide feedback.|Met|2019
19647330122838|Valley Charter Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
50713240000000|Valley Home Joint Elementary|6|The Spring 2019 school climate survey indicated an overall positive feeling from parents and staff toward their schools. Approximately 50% of households returned the survey. HIgh satisfaction (90% or better) wan noted regarding homework, school functions, child's teacher, safety, appropriate challenge, and motivation of students. Suggested areas for improvement include better notification of calendar changes, more frequent website updates, and more frequent communication regarding misbehavior. The data from the survey is shared with all stakeholder groups, including the Schoo Board and School Site Council. Feedback from the survey is considered during LCAP updates and development.|2019-05-14||Met|2019
19647330137612|Valley International Preparatory High|6|VIPHS primarily evaluates its effectiveness in creating a positive school climate through the use of the suspension rate, the frequency of the use of behavior contracts, teacher feedback, as well as qualitative responses in student and parent surveys.   As indicated earlier, VIPHS has only had to suspend students five times & implement four behavior contracts (that led to no further violations).   Furthermore, student and parent survey responses indicate that students are overwhelmingly happy and indicate that VIPHS has provided a safe, healthy, and nurturing environment.  89% of students agree that “teachers at this school treat students fairly,” 90.4% say that a teacher would help them if they reported bullying, 85.6% say they feel “accepted for who they are,” 95.8% of students say “LGBT students are accepted at this school,” 75.3% of students agree that “they feel safe in this school,” .    Results from parent survey are similar, with 92.7% of parents reporting that they believe “Teachers take my concerns seriously,” 90.6% saying they feel “welcome to participate at this school,” 81.3% of parents reporting that “the school informs me of my child’s progress,” and 98.5% of parents agreeing that “staff at this school expect my child to attend college.”  78.2% of parents believe their children are clearly informed of consequences, and 57.8% of respondents agreed that “discipline is fair at this school,” but the rest indicated “neither agree nor disagree,” most likely because so few parents have actually had to deal with disciplinary issues!|2019-10-15||Met|2019
54105460124057|Valley Life Charter|6|Using the 2018-2019 LCAP Input survey, the Leader in Me Measurable results survey, and the 2019 dashboard survey, it has been found:  VLCS Supports all learners, 96% agree students are achieving. 94% agree VLCS Welcomes families to the school. 98% agree that VLCS has a good relationship with parents. 98% agree that VLCS maintains a positive school climate. 94% agree that VLCS has high expectations for students. 100% agree that VLCS teachers, support staff, and administration care about all students. 92% agree that VLCS feels safe for all children.    On a scale of 1 - 5, 5 being the highest, 90% chose 4 or 5, in rating the LEA's progress in creating welcoming environments for all families in the community; 83.3% chose 4 or 5, in developing multiple opportunities for the school to engage in 2-way communication.  The MRA receives information from student input, parent input, staff input, and summative school data in the areas of leadership, culture, and academics. In 2019, respondents agreed with the following culture questions:  Supportive environment - this includes, school climate, school events, student empowerment, and teacher expectations.  This area is moderately effective. This means this area still needs to be improved, there is evidence that this measure has some strength that can be built upon in the coming years. (an increase of 4.11% from the previous year). In the area of student engagement, VLCS scored 62%, which was down by 12% from the previous year. This area needs the most improvement — ways in which to address this include incorporating project-based learning in each classroom. Staff satisfaction scored in the effective range and has increased by 9.09% from the previous year.  Staff satisfaction is an area of strength that should be continued to be built up and strengthened so it can have a high-effective outcome for the school.  Staff satisfaction includes empowerment and fulfillment. Empowerment increased by 16.18%, while fulfillment increased by 3.49%.  Attendance scored in the effective range. Although absenteeism needs improvement, student and teacher attendance fell in the highly effective range. The leader in me is approved by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL)CASEL is transforming American education through social and emotional learning. One way in which SEL is measured is through staff social/emotional teaching readiness. VLCS scored effectively in staff social-emotional teaching readiness, needs improvement in student leadership, effective in family involvement. Social and emotional learning support was rated as 8.11% higher than the national norms, according to the MRA.  Most subsets of student leadership were 1 to 2 points from the national norms. VLCS stood out in social etiquette.  VLCS was rated at 12% higher than the national norms in this area. Family involvement was rated as effective, with "school and family partnerships" 6.94% above the national norms.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
56725205630405|Valley Oak Charter|6|For this priority, VOC developed its own local climate survey based on the Healthy Kids Survey; it was adapted to fit our unique, hybrid homeschool program. The survey is administered every two years; it was last administered in the spring of 2019. The 26 students who responded were spread across the grade levels as follows: (K-5= 11; 6-8= 9; 9-12= 6).  • On the question of whether students feel welcome, happy, and emotionally safe when they are at VOC, 89% of the students responded “All” or “Most of” the time. 58% said “All” of the time.  • On the question of whether students feel the staff treats them with “respect, concern, and friendliness,” 88% said “All of the time” or “most of the time”; 65% said “All of the time”  • On the question of whether they have ever felt “bullied, teased, or isolated” by other students, 77% said “Never,” and 15% said “Some of the time.”  • On the question of whether they had any friends at VOC, 93% said they had three or more friends. No student reported not having a friend at VOC. • On the question of whether they looked forward to attending school each day, 73% said “Most” or “All of the time.” 46% said “All of the time.”  • When asked if they would rather be homeschooled through the VOC program or attend a traditional school, 64% said they would “Strongly prefer VOC,” with another 16% saying they “Somewhat” prefer VOC. None--0% said they would prefer attending a traditional school.|2019-10-10|Students enjoy attending Valley Oak during the school’s three weekly programming days. On-site programs are available 12 hours a week. Though attendance is required only 2 hours a week, most of our students attend 8 hours or more. While on campus, students are engaged in group-based learning activities that are designed to stimulate curiosity, offer new learning experiences, and model and support positive social interactions. VOC’s on-site programs include: mini- enrichment courses, field trips, guest speakers and community programs, tutoring, free play periods, and academic support. This year we have added a new social-emotional learning program for our K-3 students and a new “brunch” nutrition program. We believe that providing children with a consistent social group is key to social learning, so our regular on-site activities play an important role in our social learning program. The VOC program strives to support our students in navigating the social and emotional world they live in while guiding their progress in meeting the Common Core standards. Our mission is to engage the whole family in a life-long ‘educational journey’ while fostering the love of learning that is every child’s birthright.|Met|2019
15101571530492|Valley Oaks Charter|6|Valley Oaks Charter School (VOCS) promotes an environment that is safe and secure for students and staff. A safe school environment where values of respect and responsibility are emphasized is exactly the educational setting many of the VOCS parents and students’ desire and what they consider to be a critical part of the educational process. Each year, a comprehensive safety plan is reviewed and updated to address various emergency situations. Staff members and parents work together to identify any potential hazards and take preventive measures to ensure the safety of all students. Additionally, staff continues to be provided with training throughout the year to address campus safety, mandated reporting, first aid, and active shooter/intruder on campus. Emergency drills are conducted at all VOCS sites throughout the school year and each site participates in the Great California Shakeout. Students and parents are also surveyed to establish the level of school safety and school connectedness at VOCS.  According to students, 96% reported that VOCS maintains a positive environment, along with a clean and safe environment. Also, 85% of VOCS students reported feeling connected to VOCS. Parents were also surveyed and 100% reported that VOCS maintains a positive school climate and 94% reported that their student felt connected to VOCS. 99% of VOCS parents also reported that the campus is safe, clean, and in good condition. VOCS staff also participated in the annual survey and 92% reported that the campus is safe, clean and in good condition. 100% of teachers also reported VOCS to maintain a positive school climate. Lastly, 91% of VOCS feel connected to VOCS and 98% stated VOCS employs highly qualified teachers.  All of the efforts VOCS continues to take to ensure students, staff, and parents are safe and secure while on campus will remain a top priority for the VOCS team.|2019-10-07||Met|2019
39686270129916|Valley View Charter Prep|6|Annually, Valley View Charter Prep Surveys all stakeholders, including its K-12 students. A majority of the questions in the surveys are directly aligned to the 8 Basic State Priorities including school climate. Data from the survey and stakeholders meetings are reviewed and discussed. High priority status pertaining to student performance, attendance, school facilities, and school climate and course offerings are taken regarding the school’s needs and areas for growth. This information is compiled and the district LCAP is written based from these identified needs. The final plan is provided to the Board of Directors for approval at a regularly scheduled Board meeting in June.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330133694|Valor Academy Elementary|6|VAES - to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019. As recommended and required by Panorama Education, this survey was administered to 3rd graders only School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 44% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average Students Who Identified As Earning Mostly F’s -11% Receives Special Education Services -19%  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 52% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average Black or African American -10%  District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student survey|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330127894|Valor Academy High|6|VAHS to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019.  School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 55% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average N/A  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 30%  Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average English Language Learner +14% Asian +20%  Use District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student Surveys for 2018-2019|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330120022|Valor Academy Middle|6|VAMS to assess students’ perceptions of school safety and climate, the school continued it’s partnership and administration of the School Student Satisfaction Survey with Panorama Education during the spring of 2019.  School Safety - for school safety, students were asked to respond to the following questions: How often are people disrespectful to others at your school?  If a student is bullied in school, how difficult is it for him/her to get help from an adult? How likely is it that someone from your school will bully you online?  How often do you worry about violence at your school?  At your school, how unfairly do the adults treat the students?  How often do students get into physical fights at your school?  School Safety Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 61% Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average N/A  School Climate - for school climate, students were asked to respond to the following questions:  How positive or negative is the energy of the school?  How pleasant or unpleasant is the physical space at your school? How fair or unfair are the rules for the students at this school?  At your school, how much does the behavior of other students hurt or help your learning?  How often do your teachers seem excited to be teaching your classes?  School Climate Average - the average of students responding favorably to these questions was 54%  Student Subgroups with +/- 10% points from the school average N/A  Use District provided a space for school leadership to analyze data during Spring 2019 Admin Retreat to create an Annual Student Culture Goal outlined in their Annual School Action Plans. This goal was created as part of a five year action plan to ensure the student perception of student safety and climate is in the top 5% in LAUSD by 2024. School leadership meets monthly with school district representative to set and monitor progress aligned to the Student Culture Goal set forth in the Annual School Action Plan District representative holds bi-annual student focus groups with a new heterogeneous group of students to gather data and support the Student Culture Data Team to reach their goals Administration alignment of Fall and Spring Student Surveys for 2018-2019|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647336019673|Van Gogh Charter|6|In 2018-19, 97% of our students in 4th and 5th grade participated in the annual School Experience Survey   Overall 76% of our students agree/strongly agree that they feel connected at school by feeling happy, accepted, respected, and treated fairly and kindly by other kids and adults.  Overall 73% agree/strongly agree that they know behavioral expectations and consequences.  In addition, 76% agree/strongly agree that there are opportunities for participation and leadership.  Overall 79% of our students agree/strongly agree that they feel safe on campus, in the surrounding neighborhood, and that they could talk to someone about bullying or other concerns and they would be heard and helped.  These are all areas that we will focus on improving in the 2019-20 school year. In 2018-19, we began a mentor program where adults were assigned to a specific child to mentor.  The goal of this program is to give students an additional adult on campus that they feel connected to that will listen to them and help them with anything that concerns them or simply to have another trusted adult to help them feel secure and cared for.  In addition, we funded a Psychiatric Social Worker (PSW) one day a week to provide guidance and counseling to our Tier 3 students.  Our PSW supports classrooms that need intervention to foster positive group interactions.  Our PSW provides resources for parents and staff.  Parent workshops will also be presented this school year.  We are also in our second year of implementing Restorative Justice practices that contribute to building classroom communities and empathy for one another.|2019-10-30|We are continuing to implement our mentor program for identified students. We provided Professional Development at the onset of the 2019-20 school year to all of our staff on the 7 Habits of Highly Effective People.  This is the basis for the school program Leader in Me.  We are sending grade level chairs to visit schools that are incorporating the 7 Habits at their school site through the Leader in Me program.  This is an empowering tool to promote a positive school climate and healthy relationships between both adults and students.  In addition, it offers students the tools to lead themselves as well as participate in leadership roles at the school site.  Our Schoolwide Positive Behavior Intervention Support Committee meets monthly to design strategies to keep students consistently aware of behavioral expectations and to provide opportunities to positively reinforce them.|Met|2019
29768776111371|Vantage Point Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids and LCAP surveys are given to staff, students and parents each year.  The following information are key outcomes from the data collected in Spring, 2019:  PARENTS When asked if they felt their child/children were safe attending school 100% of all responses stated they strongly agreed or agreed.  When asked if parents felt the school was clean, safe and nurtures learning, 100% stated they strongly agree or agree. When asked if parents are greeted warmly, courteously and feel welcomed at the school, 100% of parents strongly agreed or agreed, and 100% of parents strong agreed or agreed that staff treat them as a valued partner in their child's education.   STUDENTS When asked if they feel safe at school, 100% of students strongly agreed or agreed.  When asked if they felt as if staff are courteous and helpful, 100% of all students stated they strongly agreed or agreed.  90% of students strongly agreed or agreed the school is clean, safe and in good repair.    STAFF 89% reported they feel safe while at school/work, and 92% felt they were adequately trained on safety procedures feeling as if they would know what to do in the event of an emergency.  87% feel the District values them as an important partner in educating each student.   In addition, 84% of staff felt they were supported by their site administrator.   Discipline is never an issue at VPC.  Students often come to our program as an alternative to the general education setting because of anxiety, lack of social skills, low grades, lack of support in other education environments.  Students are able to learn and grow on many levels when they could not find success previously.  Many of our students work while going to school and take classes at Sierra College concurrently.    We will continue to obtain feedback from all stakeholder groups to improve our daily practices and school climate.  We acknowledge our facilities need improvements and modernization.  Our team has spent the last year creating a facility needs assessment and master plan in order to place a local bond measure on the March, 2020 ballot.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
19647336019715|Vaughn Next Century Learning Center|6|Vaughn NCLC administered a School Experience Survey for students and collected responses via an online survey tool. The response rate across all Vaughn school sites (TK-12) was 94% with a total of 2,850 submissions. Students in grades 3-12 responded to all questions/statements using a 1-5 scale (1 indicating Strongly Disagree and 5 indicating Strongly Agree), whereas students in grades TK-2 responded via a modified, age appropriated survey with Yes or No statements only.  Students were asked to respond to questions that had been clustered into the following groups:  Connectedness: An overwhelming majority of students across all grade levels indicated that they agree/strongly agree that they "feel accepted for who they are" at Vaughn. When asked "are you happy to be at this school," and "do you feel like you are part of this school," the majority of students responded in the affirmative. Serving as a span school from PK/TK-12, Vaughn teachers and staff are is uniquely positioned to establish long lasting mentor/mentee relationships with students, and students become invariably connected to one another within their respective cohorts as well. With that said, it is worth noting that nearly 1/5 of high school students indicated that they felt at least marginally disconnected from the school.  Safety: Whereas the solid majority of students indicated that they felt safe on school grounds, nearly 20% of all students TK-12 expressed some level of concern over safety in the neighborhood surrounding the school. Moreover, students clearly indicated, across all school sites, that they feel respected by the adults in the school.  Expectations for Behavior: 1 in 5 students school wide believe that students are not treated fairly when they break school rules, yet a large majority of students indicated that they clearly understand what the rules are.  Participation and Leadership: A majority of students believe that they have a collective voice in decision making at the school and that teachers do encourage students to make decisions from within and beyond the classroom setting.  Bullying: nearly 90% of students school-wide indicated that online bullying is not a major concern. Moreover, fewer than 10% of students indicated that they considered negative remarks or teasing related to body image, the way students act, speak, or look to be an issue of concern.  Vaughn has invested heavily in personnel and programs designed to promote a positive school climate and culture for students and all stakeholders in the school. Vaughn will continue to develop the Restorative Justice Coordinator position at the middle and high school, and students will continue to participate in school governance committees as a means of honoring student voice in school improvement efforts.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
56105610112417|Ventura Charter School of Arts and Global Education|6|VCS administered an online school climate survey in May and June, 2019 in which 95% of our students completed.  The following are the results: # Respondents 395 (95%) % That Agree to the following  I feel that I belong 87.89 I feel safe. 93.66 I have friends 97.32 I know how to work out conflicts w/ classmates. 88.16 Other students are nice to me 89.6 My teacher cares about me and listens to my ideas. 95.01 The Directors care about me and treat me fairly. 91.08 I am treated fairly by the people on yard duty. 91.06 I am treated fairly by the people in the office. 93.87 I look forward to coming to school most days. 84.17 The work I do in class makes me think. 91.51 Very good work is expected of me. 89.47 I can get the help I need when I don't understand. 93.96 My teacher is a good teacher. 97.24 I feel comfortable speaking in front of my class. 82.41 There is more than one way to solve most problems. 92.56 I keep trying to do my school work even when it's hard. 94.77 I can persevere through difficult work. 93.38 I have opportunities to express myself through art, music, drama, etc. 87.67 I think learning is fun. 86.23 I think learning is important. 95.23 I feel challenged in my learning. 84.53 I have a Growth Mind Set 88.37 My choices help me learn. 91.08 My choices help others learn. 86.07 I work well in a group. 84.57 I work well by myself. 90.64 The results were dis-aggregated by grade level and we found that the level of school connectedness increased with each grade level so that by 8th grade, the percentage of students agreeing with the above statements ranged from 77-100% with an average of 92% agreeing with all statements.  VCS will continue to work on building community and connections with our younger students so that they feel more engaged and connected at school.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
56105610000000|Ventura County Office of Education|6|DATA: VCOE serves students in SPED, Court, and Community schools/programs. The LEA reflected on results from the California Healthy Kids Survey our students completed. The key findings our LEA was pleased to learn about included the continued high percentage of student connectedness and caring relationships with adults that was reported by students. However, the percentage of students who reported feeling sad/hopeless or suicidal is an area at the forefront of our team, as educators serving some of the most vulnerable and challenging students in our county. The reflection process continues to support our team with engaging in the inquiry process and exploring further options beyond our current practice to continue to address this finding. Our local data provided pertinent insights and has informed us on the urgent need for SEL supports for  highly specialized programs, student participation in groups, and the resources within our community and those we are investing in as an LEA to better serve our students. VCOE is committed to continue creating a school climate where all our students feel like they belong. MEANING: The disaggregated results of the survey revealed areas of strength and growth. There were varying levels of student connectedness with schools and adult staff in the LEA, as well as indications of student mental health. Areas of strength continue to include caring relationships with adults in the schools and feeling highly connected to their schools. A continued challenge is the number of  students who reported feeling sad/hopeless or considered suicide. These findings revealed that the social emotional needs of our students is high and our team needs to continue offering support services for students to address their social emotional need. Although a high mobility rate is a challenge our team is committed to providing consistent resources such as an environment that practices trauma informed care and restorative justice approaches as well as intensive interventions. USE: Revisions, decisions, and actions VCOE has implemented in response to the data in which the team reflected on includes the continued investment in profession learning such as Signs & Symptoms of Depression and Trauma Informed Care.  Our LEA has also invested in Social Emotional Learning Curriculum. VCOE is committed to continuing to create warm, welcoming, and engaging environments that promote positive experiences for student.  The response to intervention plans and safety plans are reviewed regularly to ensure continuous improvement at our schools and programs.  Continued actions for our team also include: forming strong, positive relationships with students in our schools/programs; forming strong partnerships between schools, parents, community organizations to be a network of support for our students; providing Universal support for healthy social/emotional/behavioral development for our students; and building assets in our students through small acts of caring.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
56726520000000|Ventura Unified|6|VUSD surveyed students in grades 5, 7, 9, 11 and all students at the Alternative School in 2019. We created a survey in collaboration with the Ventura County Office of Education.   71% of all students surveyed felt safe at school; upon further analysis: 73% of students receiving free/reduced price meals, and 69% of students whose primary home language is Spanish.  57% of all students look forward to coming to school most days: 63% of students receiving free/reduced price meals, and 65% of students whose primary home language is Spanish.  78% of all students agree that there are teachers or other adults at their school who will help and support them when they are having academic or personal problems: 80% of students receiving free/reduced price meals, and 80% of students whose primary home language is Spanish.  68% of all students responded “Pretty Much True” or “Very Much True” when asked if, at their school, there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about them: 68% of students receiving free/reduced price meals, and 67% of students whose primary home language is Spanish.  65% of all students responded “Pretty Much True” or “Very Much True” when asked if, at their school, there is a teacher or some other adult who notices when they are not there: 67% of students receiving free/reduced price meals, and 63% of students whose primary home language is Spanish.  77% of all students responded “Pretty Much True” or “Very Much True” when asked if, at their school, there is a teacher or some other adult who believes they will be a success:  76% of students receiving free/reduced price meals, and 75% of students whose primary home language is Spanish.  The results of our 2019 survey show that, although the percentage of students who feel safe at school has improved from 2018, we must continue our work to insure that all of our students feel safe and connected to their school. VUSD has embarked upon a districtwide Multi-Tiered Systems of Support initiative, with a focus on Social-Emotional Learning, cultural proficiency and restorative practices. Through professional development in trauma informed practices, implicit bias, and relationship building, we aim to improve the learning and school experience of all of our students. In addition, the district has added Student Assistance Program (SAP) counselors to support students in accessing district and community resources. A grant-funded counselor is assisting our students affected by the Thomas Fire. In the 2019-20 LCAP, Goal 2: Student Connections to School has 5 actions and 15 services to address school climate.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
39103973930476|Venture Academy|6|Venture Academy administers a parent survey yearly in both English and Spanish to generate feedback for the LCAP. Parents of children in all grade spans are invited to respond. The survey includes questions designed to address state priorities and to help determine areas of strength and need.   Feedback from the survey administered in spring 2019 showed that the majority of respondents strongly agreed or agreed that:  • VAFS school facilities are maintained in good repair. • Venture Academy provides opportunities for parents to participate in their children's • education. • Venture Academy provides opportunities for sports and extracurricular activities. • their children feel safe at school. • their children have access to a counselor. • their children have gained self-confidence while enrolled in Venture Academy. • their children have a healthy balance of schoolwork and play.  Details of responses are contained in the 2019-20 Local Control and Accountability Plan.|2019-09-17|Venture Academy administered the Californian Healthy Kids Survey in the 2017-18 school year. The survey will be administered again in the 2019-20 school year.|Met|2019
36679180000000|Victor Elementary|6|Students in grades 2-6 are surveyed annually. The results from the statement “I feel safe at my school” show that 85.12% of student respondents agree with the statement.  This is an increase of 2% from the prior year. As a result, our superintendent continues to conduct student focus groups at each school twice a year to further understand student concerns and/or input about safety. Based on student, parent and staff input, Victor Elementary School District is continuing with its 3 year MTSS plan. Lead teams at each site meet weekly to review data and refine processes. VESD leadership meets with the school MTSS teams twice yearly to review and refine MTSS planning.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
36679340000000|Victor Valley Union High|6|VVUHSD uses Panorama Education’s CORE Student Climate Survey gathered feedback from students. In 2018-2019, 7,806 students responded; an increase of 1,657 from 2017-18. The first topic, Climate of Support for Academic Learning, had a 72% favorable response (Strongly Agree/Agree), up from 69% in the prior year. There was an increase in the students’ belief the district staff work toward providing an environment that encourages and motivates them to achieve academically. The next topic, Safety, had a 66% favorable response, which is at the 50th percentile when compared with other CORE districts. This demonstrates that most students feel physically and emotionally safe in our schools. The third topic, Knowledge and Fairness of Discipline, Rules, and Norms had a 76% favorable response, up from 52%. The fourth topic, Sense of Belonging, had a 54% favorable response, up from 52%. The issue of being treated fairly had surfaced as an area of concern the previous school year with a low response of 45%; this year 53% of students responded favorably. So, while there is still much room for improvement, there was remarkable growth in one year. The fifth topic, Teacher-Student Relationships, showed a 44% favorable response, illustrating that student perception caring teachers is an area of growth. Recent workshops on Transformational Growth Mindset should help reset this dynamic. This year, a new topic, Valuing ELA and Math, was added. The baseline score was 81% favorable with scores of 79% for ELA and 83% for Math, respectively. The data was analyzed and the district demonstrated strengths in the area of support for academic learning and setting high expectations for student participation. Alternatively, teachers need to support students in socioemotional learning. The district must continue to provide professional development in socioemotional learning for our staff to ensure a climate with clear and supportive expectations for student academic progress, as well as positive student behavior. The district has renewed efforts for Positive Behavior Interventions & Support at all school sites, and provided training to school site teams in the area of Multi-Tiered Systems of Support.  Further, the district continues to provide support for school safety as evidenced by LCAP Advisory Committee making significant revisions to the district goals.  Revised goal 2 states “VVUHSD will provide a safe learning environment for students and staff, with comprehensive safety standards, conducted in clean facilities that supports a positive school climate with family engagement” to address safety.  In addition, Goal 5 now states “VVUHSD will focus on student and staff wellness to promote student academic success through the design and support of programs in attendance, responsible behavior, positive attitudes and social-emotional learning” to address wellness. The actions/services of our goals will continue to use climate survey data for future revisions to meet student needs.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
43693930106005|Village|6||||Not Met|2019
49753580114934|Village Charter|6|VCS is proud of our continued growth and retention of students through the grades. This year’s our middle school class is holding at approximately 28 students and will grow to 33 in the 2019-20 school year, all of whom have been at VCS since their primary grades. We also have 100% of our non-graduating/non-relocating students returning in 2019-20. As our students reach their teens, this retention through the grades has provided a continuity that has truly enhanced our school wide activities, sense of belonging and community involvement. We are also proud of the positive relationships we have maintained with our sponsoring district, WUSD, and with the schools we share our site space with. Our partnership with POUSD, NWP and SCOE has solidified significantly. Another area of pride focuses on the safe school environment we have developed and maintained. Students and parents report that the behavior expectations and the restorative practices we as teachers and staff use foster a learning environment that is physically and emotionally safe.  VCS plans on implementing a local climate survey that captures a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in grade spans K–5 and 6–8.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19647330129866|Village Charter Academy|6|The primary results of our survey for Village students in grades 3-5 reflect that parent/school connection is a strong one (100%), that the environment is safe with rules that are clearly understood by students (100%), that the administrators and  staff set high expectations and expect all students to follow the rules (100%), that adults at the school site address student problems in a consistent manner (93%), and all adults, including the directors, encourage students to always do their best (98%).  In addition, students indicated that Village’s school environment was kept clean (83%), that they knew what to do in an emergency, including fire drills and other safety drills (100%), and they liked coming to a school with a safe and clean environment.   Students recognized their access to a wide variety of technology in the classroom (98%) and the school-wide student events and recognition programs that provide and enhanced learning climate (98%).    Survey question #10 indicated that only 74% of students knew what to do if something at school was bothering them and who they needed to talk to about the problem.  Areas of Strength  or Growth:  The data collected validates that Village Charter Academy provides a clean and safe environment that consistently supports student learning.  Students, parents and the community recognize that the school is a educational environment with an excellent school climate that consistently promotes success for a divergent student population.  The school staff will continue to develop and expand programs that contribute to the continuation of our successful efforts in this area.  One area of growth, recently addressed by VCA’s Board of Directors, is the expansion of our Attendance Program to continue to provide a school climate where each child feels safe and looks forward to coming to school each day.  Area of challenges: Item 10 on the Student Survey reveals that 26% of students survey do not know what to do when facing a school challenge and who to contact for help to solve the problem.  There was also minor concern expression in the area of student restrooms, the school lunch, and limited name calling.|2019-11-02||Met|2019
49708966052070|Village Elementary Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was last administered in the Spring of 2018.  At that time, 78% of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported feeling safe at school "all" or "most" of the time. Rincon Valley Union School District administers a local student survey annually. In 2018-19, 81% of elementary students and 81% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school "always" or "often." In addition, 84% of elementary students and 83% of middle school students reported that they are "always" or "often" happy to be at this school. The school district decided to continue providing professional development for more social emotional programs for staff to implement.  The 7th and 8th grade charter school also implemented the Stop It program for students to have a safe way to report incidents to staff.  We have heard from staff and parents for the ongoing need for counselors at our school sites to support the development of social emotional skills.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
01612590123711|Vincent Academy|6|The school climate survey for both students and families overwhelmingly indicates confidence that Vincent Academy is working to improve safety and culture at school, and an opportunity to voice opinion is provided with a positive rating of instruction and safety.  In addition to the parent engagement efforts described in prior priorities, the school has made inroads by consistently defining, aligning and implementing our priorities.   We are considering a re-design of our survey as well as determining strategies to ensure the diversity of our families is represented in the responses.|2019-10-07|Open and consistent communication with all stakeholders is foundational for improving school climate. Vincent academy has made significant steps to do that and build the trust needed to pull together as a team and meet the needs of our students. Examples include welcoming events that celebrate our diversities and our students, curriculum activities that include staff, parents and students, events that acknowledge grandparents and a myriad of activities that unite us with our common goal.  In addition, any and all programs at  Vincent Academy are implemented consistently across all grades as well as in and out of the classroom, and evidence the commitment of our non-classroom teaching staff.   SEL is a major emphasis at Vincent Academy.  Toolbox is implemented consistently across all grades.  We use many incentives to support our students, including weekly schoolwide recognitions, the weekly Wednesday Family Meeting and a wide range of classroom specific acknowledgements.   We have partnered with agencies and groups such as the Oakland Athletics and the Marin Valley Film Collective to provide so many opportunities to encourage students.   Also, we fundraise for a Summer Camp program that balanced camp and curriculum and builds family!    Check-in with administration is ongoing, SST and COST meetings are regularly scheduled and student progress closely monitored because of the profound connection between providing adequate support for students and student performance.|Met|2019
15638340000000|Vineland Elementary|6|The Vineland School District administered the California Healthy Kid Survey (CHKS) in 2018. Results serve to measure the district's progress on State Priority Six, School Climate. There were 399 students who participated in the survey, which represented students in the Third through Eighth Grade.  Key Findings included that : 60% of the students reported  "adults at the school care about me.". 41% reported  "adults at my school make an effort to get to know me.". 37% reported "Students at my school care for each other." 53% reported "I feel accepted at my school." These trends indicate that the students  feel a disconnect between them and the school. The Vineland School District's response is to implement Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) to build capacity for social , emotional, and behavior support. The district plans to engage students regarding their sense of community and connectedness to school by implementing Goals and Action items in the LCAP. The district will continue to monitor and evaluate this area of concern with on-going data. The VSD also will implement continuous improvement in regards to student activities to engage the students in their school community which affect school climate.|2019-10-21|The Vineland School District is committed to providing all students a safe learning environment in which all students can achieve to their fullest potential. Positive Behavioral Intervention & Supports ,PBIS, has been implemented throughout the district. All staff has been provided professional development and each school site has a PBIS committee to ensure the success and implementation of the program. Each school site also has a full time School Counselor that directs and implements the PBIS Program. The School Counselors  are integral to promoting positive school climate by  providing our students with direct services, group counseling, and any other  many other programs.|Met|2019
54722560109751|Visalia Charter Independent Study|6|Visalia Charter Independent Study administers an annual survey to all students in grades 9-12 to provide feedback to the school on curriculum and instruction, assessment, and school climate and culture. Question #5 (I am treated fairly by staff) and #7 (I feel safe and secure on the school campus) were used to measure the students' perception of school safety and connectedness. According to the 2018-19 survey, 98% of students felt staff treated students fairly, which is a 1% increase from the previous year. 92% of students feel safe and secure while on campus, which is also a 1% increase from the previous year. Each year, VCIS makes student and staff safety a priority. The safety plan is reviewed, updated, and practiced each year to ensure everyone is familiar with expectations and understands their role in an emergency situation. An active shooter drill is scheduled and practiced at least twice a year as well as yearly fire and earthquake drills. The safety plan is developed each summer and presented to all staff members at the first staff meeting of the year for reminders, updates, and expectations. The plan is also presented to the School Site Council to give parents and students the ability to have input and decision making with the plan. The processes that we have implemented at the school site are yielding the results we were looking for. Staff and students feel safer on campus and staff reports feeling more confident each year as we consistently practice drills and evacuation procedures.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
54722560120659|Visalia Technical Early College|6|VTEC High School uses the CoVitality Survey with all students twice a year.  Data shared is from the spring 2019.  The CoVitality  Secondary(CoVitality-S) is an evidence-based social emotional health survey used to screen for a student’s complete mental health to help increase their positive developmental outcomes and robust psychological well-being. The CoVitality-Secondary (CoVitality-S) is based on research showing that youth actively engage in mastering essential developmental tasks (Belief-in-Self, Belief-in-Others, Emotional Competence, and Engaged Living).  The survey shows that 12.2% of VTEC students are high thriving, 25.7% are moderate thriving, 26.7% were getting by, 4.5% are languishing, 9.5% are vulnerable, 2.26% are moderate risk and 11.76% are at high risk.  Students identified as high risk were connected to counseling services on site to ensure they were receiving adequate support.  The survey went on to identify other key cultural points.  76.9% of students feel as if they can effectively manage their positive and negative emotions on campus.  74.6% feel like they have helpful, positive relationships with there peers.  70.5% feel like the have helpful, positive relationships with their teachers.  61% feel like they are developing the ability to effectively meet the demands of their environment.   The results of the CoVitality survey helped guide the work on school culture by the VTEC administration.  VTEC, because of its size, has a unique culture.  Attitudes and behaviors spread quickly because of its small size.  A positive "feel" on campus can spread quickly and in turn, a negative "feel" spreads to students quickly.  To help support school culture and atmosphere VTEC sent ASB officers to California Activities Directors Association training and conference during the summer of 2019.  The training gave students and staff the tools to help enhance school culture.  ASB has been active with new, exciting activities and events that include all students and boost culture.  VTEC also developed a school "Culture Club" to give students an outlet to share concerns and then help build solutions with staff and students. VTEC also invest CLAP funding to provide a Behavior Intervention Technician to help serve all students and address the social emotional needs of the campus.  The BIT is utilizes outside resources for counseling and restorative practices.  The BIT maintains a case load of students as well as works with students who are in crisis|2019-10-29|The enhancement and expansion of ASB activities and the development of the school Culture Club have been positive steps for VTEC.  These groups allow staff and students an opportunity to voice concerns and share the "feel" on campus.  This activity in conjunction with the expansion of ASB activities on campus has lead to improved, positive culture on campus.|Met|2019
54722560000000|Visalia Unified|6|Twice a year the district administers a survey for students. This survey helps staff : • Demonstrate Program Impact • Implement Prevention Activities • Improve School Climate • Develop Targeted Individual Interventions • Evaluate Program Outcomes   During the 2018/19 school year the groups focused on the key questions of:     • How do stakeholders view the current state of equity within the district? • What is the school system doing to help students succeed? • What challenges or barriers related to equity exist in the district? • What types of resources are necessary to support diverse staff, students, and families? • How can community and school-based stakeholders work together to support equity in the district?    The findings of the focus groups were: • Stakeholders define their educational experiences in Visalia by inequality or inconsistency.While the district has done a good job of providing a variety of opportunities for students, access to these options are not evenly distributed due to district boundaries. High school education varies greatly in the district depending on the campus site attended. High schools differ in facilities, schedule, courses, discipline, student population, and staffing. • Stakeholders notice that the district’s focus is on its top performing students, often leaving other groups behind.The education of other student groups in the district is affected by biases that impede knowledge of, access to, and encouragement to pursue opportunities.  The recommendations of the focus groups are: • Be Consistent: The district must ensure that policies and programs, such as discipline and special education, are consistent between all high schools. Inconsistent application of guidelines, rules, and laws impacts the educational experience. • Be Informative: The district should proactively communicate with all stakeholders and should continue to situate equity at the center of discussions. Staff need a clear definition of equity and clear updates on policies and news, while students and parents should be notified of policy changes and opportunities of which they may not be currently aware. • Be Inclusive: The district needs to encourage participation and input from every part of the school community. Programs and events should be held at different times and locations and translators provided for other languages.  • Be Supportive: To promote equity from the ground up, the district should continue to listen to members of the school community, including students, parents, and teachers, to determine their needs. This process needs to support the perspectives of all, not only the loud or passionate.  Currently, the district inclusivity leadership team which includes district and site administrators, teachers, and classified management is attending Access & Equity for All Students: A Cultural Proficiency Certification.  This district's plan is to further train staff members in Cultural Proficiency.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
34674473430717|Visions In Education|6|There are several measures used at Visions In Education to determine school climate. One measure  is the school suspension rate. This is a statewide indicator that is captured on the CDE dashboard independently of local indicators. Visions currently has a suspension rate of 0%. With regard to the Local Indicator for school climate, there are two areas that are measured, school connectedness and safety. Each of these components were addressed in the 2019 LCAP survey. School Connectedness- The 2019 LCAP survey sought to capture the school climate by asking parents and students whether or not Visions was a “fit” for their student. The current educational landscape provides families a wide variety of choice for students to attend. As a result, it is imperative that schools work to ensure that instructional programs, resources, and staff match the academic and personal growth goals of students. The results showed that for 97.3% of students and parents, Visions was identified as a “fit” for their student. This number also captured the increase in the total number of stakeholders who participated in the survey. School Safety- The 2019 LCAP survey additionally sought to capture school climate by asking parents and students whether or not they felt safe when participating in school events or enrichment activities (classes). Survey results showed that for 99.2% of students and parents, Visions was perceived as a SAFE place for students to attend. Lastly, Visions has grown at a rate of over 10% this year. As a school of choice, program enrollment is also a measure of school climate. The school is in a constant state of continuous improvement. The school utilizes multiple satisfaction surveys to monitor service and performance. The school regularly gathers information through its advisory boards, social media feeds and parent emails as data to reflect on practice. The goals of the school's LCAP plan are based upon this feedback. Under each goal, dozens of initiatives are undertaken to improve student achievement and school climate.|2019-10-24|Detailed Survey results can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1f0bmcKSQ8-n_eBdSU5x0jHKtvO4Zeu1_YXGZI2igffM/edit?usp=sharing  Copy and paste URL into address bar to see detailed responses from the annual LCAP survey.|Met|2019
19647330122739|Vista Charter Middle|6|Below are the results from the Fall Climate Survey administered to grades 6-8.  Our survey is aligned with our LCAP Goals 1-4  DATA D=Disagree U=Undecided A=Agree  GOAL 1 1.  I am actively engaged in learning in class.  D=21.2% U=0.7% A=78.1% 2.  The work my teachers assign requires me to think D=13.7% U=1% A=85.3% 3.  Teachers use technology to help me learn.   D=11.4% U=1.3% A=87.3%  4.  I am given opportunities to share my thinking and learning with my classmates during class (through Kagan and other activities).   D=22.5% U=2.9% A=74.5% 5.  Using a Chromebook helps me learn in class and complete my assignments.  D=17% U=1.3% A=81.7% 6.  Advisory helps me improve my Math and Reading skills. D=34.6% U=14.1% A=51.3%  GOAL 2 7.  Teachers encourage me to ask questions in class. D=32.4% U=4.6% A=63.1% 8.  When I am confused, teachers are willing to help me until I understand. D=19% U=2.6% A=78.4% 9.  Teachers help me learn.   D=9.8% U=0.7% A=89.5% 10.  I ask for help when I need it.   D=32% U=4.2% A=63.7% 11.  Teachers tell me what I need to do to improve.   D=14.1% U=2.3% A=83.7% 12.  The classroom atmosphere supports my learning.   D=36.7% U=5.6% A=57.7%    GOAL 3 13.  My teachers use new and different ways of teaching me in the classroom.  D=21.2% U=2.3% A=76.5%  GOAL 4 14. I feel accepted by my teachers in my classes.   D=20.6% U=3.3% A=20.6% 15.  I feel a sense of community or belonging in my school.   D=30.7% U=3.9% A=65.4% 16.Bullying is not tolerated at Vista.   D=22.2% U=8.2% A=69.6% 17.  My school is a safe place.   D=27.8% U=6.2% A=66% 18.  Supervision and office staff make me feel safe and supported.  D=22% U=4.9% A=73.1%  MEANING Based on the data gathered, it seems that we are doing our best on Goal 1 which is providing an instructional program that is rigorous and relevant for students.  Data gathered show that students are actively engaged in their thinking and learning.  An area of growth is in goal 4 which is providing social emotional supports and a safe school environment.  In most cases over 20% of students feel that they are not accepted and that their school is not safe.    USE We will use this survey to begin discussions about what it means to be safe in school and what we can implement so students feel a sense of community and belonging.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
30103060137000|Vista Condor Global Academy|6|Data: Teachers have high expectations for me: 93.1% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers make themselves available outside of class time: 82.7% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers care that I learn: 95.1% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers show a personal concern for me as an individual: 88.8% Agree/Strongly Agree I feel accepted by my teachers in my classes: 88.7% Agree/Strongly Agree I feel a sense of community or belonging in my classes: 85.5% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers ask me about my personal goals and plans for life: 68.4% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers help me explore career goals: 70.8% Agree/Strongly Agree The classroom atmosphere supports my learning: 83.5% Agree/Strongly Agree I ask for help when I need it: 80.4% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers encourage me to live a healthy lifestyle: 85.1% Agree/Strongly Agree I enjoy my teachers: 90.4% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers help me learn: 94.4% Agree/Strongly Agree  Meaning: Overall the survey data is positive, validating that our efforts and programs are effective in making sure all students feel safe and cared for.  We still have room for growth in helping our students to plan and think about college and career goals and aspirations.  Finally, while the majority of our students are having a positive experience at Vista Condor, there are still some students who we could be better supporting.  Use: Our School Culture Committee and Administrative Team have analyzed this data extensively.  From this, we have continued to increase support services, including a second Education Specialist and have added additional counseling services.  We have trained all staff how to cultivate meaningful relationships with students and how to support students who have gone through trauma.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
42693440000000|Vista del Mar Union|6|The district administers the following surveys: -CA Healthy Kids Survey, grades 5 & 7 = every other year -Parent Satisfaction Survey = annually -California School Staff Survey = every other year In 2018-19, we administered the CAHKS and Staff Survey in November. The district is in the process of updating our Parent Survey in order to be more relevant with current conditions at the school. We will utilize the results of these surveys to update the LCAP.   The results of these surveys are shared and analyzed with the Board of Trustees and the faculty, and the results are used to make informed decisions about the schools' programs. The district continues to work on the social and emotional well-being of our students. In order to do so, staff has been trained in Multi-tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) and is implementing a district-wide curriculum called Second Step. As a district, we will continue our professional development in order to develop strategies to meet the differentiated needs of students. In order to do so, we are beginning to explore Universal Design for Learning (UDL), as well as review current instructional programs for effectiveness.  One key area that continues to strengthen is student input in the school's educational programs. We continually seek ways for students to contribute their thoughts and ideas for how to improve their school and become active stakeholders in their education.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
30103060132613|Vista Heritage Global Academy|6|Data: Students were provided a survey aligned with our LCAP goals and 250/270 responded. Teachers have high expectations for me: 93.1% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers make themselves available outside of class time: 82.7% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers care that I learn: 95.1% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers show a personal concern for me as an individual: 88.8% Agree/Strongly Agree I feel accepted by my teachers in my classes: 88.7% Agree/Strongly Agree I feel a sense of community or belonging in my classes: 85.5% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers ask me about my personal goals and plans for life: 68.4% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers help me explore career goals: 70.8% Agree/Strongly Agree The classroom atmosphere supports my learning: 83.5% Agree/Strongly Agree I ask for help when I need it: 80.4% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers encourage me to live a healthy lifestyle: 85.1% Agree/Strongly Agree I enjoy my teachers: 90.4% Agree/Strongly Agree Teachers help me learn: 94.4% Agree/Strongly Agree  Meaning: Overall the survey data is positive, validating that our efforts and programs are effective in making sure all students feel safe and cared for.  We still have room for growth in helping our students to plan and think about college and career goals and aspirations.  Finally, while the majority of our students are having a positive experience at Vista Heritage, there are still some students who we could be better supporting.  Use: Our School Culture Committee and Administrative Team have analyzed this data extensively.  From this, we have continued to increase support services, including a second Education Specialist and have added additional counseling services.  We have trained all staff how to cultivate meaningful relationships with students and how to support students who have gone through trauma.  Finally, we are revamping our Advisory classes to be more focused on preparing students for college and career by exploring their interests and understanding what they would need to do to get certain jobs.|2019-10-23||Met|2019
19647330139089|Vista Horizon Global Academy|6|Below are the results from Vista Horizon’s Fall Climate Survey administered to students in grades TK-5. D=Disagree U=Undecided  A=Agree I feel challenged in class. D= 20% U= 10% A= 70% The work my teachers assign requires me to think.  D= 0% U= 0%  A=100% Teachers use technology to help me learn.  D= 0% U= 0%  A=100% Using a Chromebook helps me learn in class and complete my assignments. D= 5% U= 0%  A=95% Teachers want me to ask questions in class.  D= 0% U= 0%  A=100% When I am confused, teachers help me understand. D= 0% U= 0%  A=100% Teachers help me learn. D= 0% U= 0%  A=100% I ask for help when I need it. D= 0% U= 0%  A=100% Teachers tell me what I need to do to improve.  D= 5% U= 0%  A=95% Teachers use different ways of teaching me in my classes.  D= 0% U= 5%  A=95% I feel accepted by my teachers in my classes. D= 5% U= 0%  A=95% I have someone to talk to when I need help. D= 5% U= 0%  A=95% My school is a safe place.  D= 0%  U= 5%  A=95% My family know what is going on at Vista. D= 5%  U= 5%  A=90%  Based on the data gathered from the local Fall Climate survey, at least 90% of students feel safe and welcomed at Vista Horizon. Students were also asked who they can go to for help or if they have a problem and many students answered that they can go to a teacher or a friend at school. A strength we can highlight from the survey is that teachers are a big support system for our students. Many of the students who indicated undecided or disagree on the survey were 4th and 5th grade students which tells is that Vista Horizon will work with teachers and staff to assure that the upper grades students not only feel challenged in class but accepted and welcome as well.|2019-10-23|Vista Horizon Global Academy is in it's first year of operation and is serving students in grades TK-5. All students at Vista Horizon are new to the school and students in the upper grades come from multiple schools.|Met|2019
36677360136937|Vista Norte Public Charter|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  95% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  90% reported that they felt connected to the school *  90% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given during the 2nd semester to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
07616630130930|Vista Oaks Charter|6|Vista Oaks is committed to the ongoing development of a positive school climate and culture, where all students are able to thrive and succeed. The school worked diligently to implement the goals and actions that were outlined in the 2018-2019 LCAP.  As a result of our climate survey results, Vista Oaks has worked diligently to help our families connect to the greater school community, as well as support the learning at home. Vista Oaks held 12 parent workshops during the 2018-2019 school year. In addition, the school held four School Site Council meetings, five Parent Advisory Committee Meetings, and four parent input meetings for students with disabilities.  Additionally, Vista Oaks has increased the number of electives available for high school students based on survey results. Introduction to Business, Culinary Arts, and Culinary Arts 1 have been added for the 2019-2020 school year. Also, Vista Oaks successfully implemented the actions and services outlined in the 2018-2019 LCAP. During the 2018-2019 year, academic counselors have maintained time allotted to provide one-on-one guidance, which was well-received and utilized by students, families and staff. Academic counselors coordinated 10 events and provided 5 additional hours per week of time set aside for academic counseling. Finally, Vista Oaks successfully added a third CTE course that was articulated with San Joaquin Delta College. Vista Oaks will focus on maintaining these services and programs available to all students.|2019-10-29||Met|2019
56105610109900|Vista Real Charter High|6|In the spring of 2018, the local school climate survey was given to students online and anonymously.  We serve students in an individualized program mainly in high school.  The results were analyzed and shared with the school board at a regularly scheduled meeting.   The students reported the following metrics in accord with their experience: *  99% of the students reported that they felt safe at school *  96% reported that they felt connected to the school *  99% of the students reported that they were satisfied with their individualized program This was very meaningful to the school, because the faculty and leadership are very intentional in ensuring that each student experiences a school culture that they can trust and feel good about attending.  A positive school culture is fundamental to our values and mission.  We are aware of the fact that there are students who require additional attention and outreach, so that they will also feel connected to the school.  The challenge is that a few students have had traumatic experiences with school and/or with adults in their past, so our trauma informed practices must be implemented with fidelity.  In the spirit of continual improvement, we will consider other survey options in the fall that could inform the quality of our school programs, especially the socio-emotional, trauma informed components of our program.  The local school climate survey was designed to align with our LCAP Goal #5 and was given to students, parents and teachers/staff.  The results reflect the school’s efforts to implement our LCAP and meet the goals.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
37771560137323|Vista Springs Charter|6|During the 2018-19 school year, students participated in the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS). Student survey results were reported to the school in elementary (grades 3-5), middle school (grades 6-8), and high school (9-12) results groups.  The school analyzed survey results and identified Glows (areas of strength) and Grows (identified areas for growth).  The Glows were: (1) 82%  of students believe all students can learn, (2) 93% believe school is a safe learning environment, (3) 85% of students do not use alcohol or marijuana.  Identified Grows include: Students reported that teachers need more support and training on handling difficult behaviors, students need more counseling support at school, and some students report a feeling of sadness or hopelessness sometimes.   The MTSS leadership had a data analysis meeting and highlighted the summary data for the student center, regarding school culture and student well-being. MTSS administrators sent the full report to the principal and the administrative director of Professional development and made recommendations.  The school is in year 1 of implementing Habits of Success to address the "Springs Has Heart" goal and emphasize the importance of addressing the social emotional needs of our students as well as academics.  In addition the LEA conducts an annual stakeholder engagement survey, which includes questions about school safety and connectedness.   These results were reported to the Governing Board during the LCAP process in June 2019.  The school plans to include an additional segment of the CHKS in the 2020-21 school year stakeholder survey.|2019-12-12||Met|2019
37684520000000|Vista Unified|6|This measure addresses information regarding the school environment based on a local climate survey administered every other year on the topics of school safety and connectedness. LEAs report how they administered a local climate survey (at least every other year) that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness to their local governing boards at a regularly scheduled meeting and reports to stakeholders and the public through the Dashboard.  The summary of progress is required to be based on information collected that captures a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in at least one grade within the grade span.|2019-10-17|Vista Unified uses a climate survey tool developed by the University of California San Diego (UCSD) to annually monitor the status of the school environment for students, parents, community members and staff. The UCSD survey is administered annually at three grade levels. This survey follows a cohort of students for three years and then resets. The purpose of this methodology is to track climate changes over time. The data from both surveys are presented to the School Board during a public meeting annually. The most current climate survey results for students indicate statistically significant improvement in the sense of belonging, safety, and teacher trust. The survey indicated a dramatic improvement in students' sense of safety in middle school.|Met|2019
37768516113468|Vivian Banks Charter|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
43694500113662|Voices College-Bound Language Academy|6|In the 2018-19 school year, Voices Franklin McKinley r annual parent culture and climate survey questions were asked about student perceptions. 97% of parents (175 respondents) reported their child enjoyed going to school, and felt the school created an environment where their child could succeed, an increase from the prior year. Voices Franklin Mckinley will conduct annual culture and climate surveys with middle school students.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
43104390131748|Voices College-Bound Language Academy at Morgan Hill|6|Due to the grade levels currently offered at  Voices Morgan Hill, TK-5th, surveys have not been administered to the students directly yet. There are questions on the parent survey though directed toward student perceptions. 97% of parents responded that their child enjoyed going to school, and felt Voices Morgan Hill created an environment where children could succeed. Annual Surveys will be distributed to our middle school students starting in 19-20.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
43104390132530|Voices College-Bound Language Academy at Mt. Pleasant|6|Voices Mount Pleasant serves students TK-5th grade, and surveys administered to students once in 5th grade. However, there are questions on our annual parent culture and climate survey addressing student perception. 95% of parents reported their children enjoying going to school. In addition, 98% of parents felt Voices Mount Pleasant created an environment where their children could succeed. Annual Surveys will distributed to our middle school students in 19-20.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
07617960136903|Voices College-Bound Language Academy at West Contra Costa County|6|Due to the grade levels currently offered at  West Contra Costa, TK-3rd, surveys have not been administered to the students directly. There are questions on the annual parent culture and climate survey though directed toward student perceptions. 99% of parents responded that their child enjoyed going to school, and 100% of parents responded to the school culture as being positive.|2019-11-01||Met|2019
19647330137521|Vox Collegiate of Los Angeles|6|Vox Collegiate will implement the school climate survey in the 2019-20 school year.|2019-07-16||Met|2019
10767781030774|W.E.B. DuBois Public Charter|6|Our goal to ensure that facilities enable the school to maintain a learning environment to meet the educational health, and safety needs of students is that we have ensure that the school will maintain safe and clean facilities that promote learning with instructional support such as computer labs, online libraries, on-site libraries, sports, summer enrichment, and after-school programs. To accomplish this goal, we put specific actions in place and followed up with stakeholder surveys, in order to gather stakeholder input.  The following actions were put in place: • Maintain safe and high-quality facilities.  o Upgrades and ongoing maintenance have been performed to maintain safe and high-quality facilities. o  School has begun to install and upgrade camera security system at both sites. •   Maintain quality janitorial staff and ensure they have access to necessary supplies to ensure the campus is clean and sanitized. o  Janitorial Compliance Requisition Forms are utilized as a method of auditing to ensure necessary cleaning and maintenance takes place.  • Supply classrooms and labs with updated computers and software licenses. o  Technology Specialist ensures that computers are updated and software licenses are renewed regularly.  o  Online-Library subscription is available to students for research. •  Purchase or lease and maintain sports, fitness, and recreational facilities and equipment. o  Sports, fitness, and recreational facilities and equipment are purchased and replaced as necessary to support health and fitness.  Stakeholder feedback revealed the following: • Student survey 77.2% of students ‘Agree’ or ‘Strongly Agree’ that W.E.B. DuBois is a safe place to attend school.  • 77% of students Agree or Strongly Agree that W.E.B. DuBois facilities are clean and well maintained. 84.8% of students Agree or Strongly Agree that W.E.B. DuBois has adequate technology available on campus to meet academic needs.  • Although the majority students felt safe and agreed the school had technology the survey showed a decrease in number. • 97% of parents believe that their children feel safe at W.E.B. DuBois.  • 100% of parents Agree or Strongly Agree that W.E.B. DuBois students have access to standards-aligned textbooks and materials.  • 100% of parents agree that the campus is clean.  • 98% of parents Agree or Strongly Agree that W.E.B. DuBois facilities are in good repair. Safety is still a concern at W.E.B. DuBois but parents expressed satisfaction with security measures that have been taken in the 17-18 school year. • Staff reported that 92% feel safe on campus 90% agree that the campus is clean.|2019-10-28|1. Classrooms and labs have been updated computers and software licenses. 2. Technology Specialist ensures that computers are updated and software licenses are renewed regularly. 3. Online-Library subscription is available to students for research.|Met|2019
11101160124909|Walden Academy|6|Overall, student satisfaction is high at Walden Academy.  Students feel safe, know they are missed when out of school, and feel connected to students and adults.  Students feel they have a voice in the classroom and outside the classroom.  They have high academic motivation and feel there is a high amount of support.    13% of students noted they neither feel safe or do not feel safe.  I would like to decrease that number and increase the number that perceived very safe or safe above 48% and 35% respectively.  78% of students stated their overall school connectedness rating from 78% to higher.    Installation of a fence surrounding the campus may help students perceive a greater level of safety.  Increasing activities at recess, increasing CARES tickets, and more opportunities for students in various grade levels may help increase the level of school connectedness.|2019-10-28||Met|2019
19647330100750|Wallis Annenberg High|6|Per our 2018-2019 LCAP Stakeholder Survey results, Wallis Annenberg High School provides a safe environment for staff and students. Parents are satisfied with school response time and parents are pleased with the educational programs provided to their children. Parents voiced that they would like to take part in campus safety walk-throughs, which as a result, will be implemented this year. We have also included parents on more committees this school year (such as our wellness committee) so that this stakeholder voice can be heard in a timely manner. Stakeholders have also voiced that they feel that Wallis Annenberg High School provides a more rigorous academic program than similar or resident schools.  Wallis Annenberg High School will continue to analyze and evaluate the safety of the school, the academic programs offered at the school site, the cleanliness of the facilities, the courses offered to students and their effectiveness. This will be done through surveys, collaborative Learning Rounds, and stakeholder input at various meetings.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
07618120000000|Walnut Creek Elementary|6|WCSD administered  the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in October 2017 to 5th and 7th grade students.  Additionally, the Student Youth Truth Survey (SYTS) was administered to all middle school students in May 2019. Based on student responses the key learnings from the survey results are as follows:   a. CHKS: 90% of 5th grade students and 79% of 7th grade students report feeling safe at school.   b. CHKS: 67% of 5th grade students and 74% of 7th grade students gave a                          “high” rating to school connectedness.            c. SYTS: 59% of middle school students report enjoying coming to school                 most of the time.  d. SYTS: 69% report feeling that most adults in the school treat students with     respect. (7% higher than reported by typical schools nationally)              Each school site will disaggregate and analyze their site survey results in order to create action steps to support its School Plan for Student Achievement Goals. On a District level, we are in the initial stages of using this data to begin developing a District Climate Committee to address our areas for growth.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
19734600000000|Walnut Valley Unified|6|During the 2018-2019 school year, the Walnut Valley Unified School District (WVUSD) convened several student focus groups to gather stakeholder feedback. The student focus groups were comprised of students in grades 5th through 12th. Each focus group was administered a group questionnaire consisting of eight discussion related questions. Student focus groups discussed questions that related to perceptions on school climate and safety. The WVUSD LCAP Advisory Council, made up of stakeholders across various groups (i.e. parents, students, staff), analyzed the results of the student focus group questionnaires, and made the following key recommendations as it relates to school climate and safety:  Continue to review and refine district and school safety protocols; Foster student voice to improve engagement for all students; Ensure students are finding balance between their academics and social & emotional wellness.  The focus group data reflects an ongoing need for the district and schools to continue focusing on the social and emotional learning of its students. This holistic approach to raising the “whole child” has been a past focus of the district, and based on the results of our focus groups, will remain so for the immediate future.  The survey was taken by 2,979 students. The disaggregated results found the following : 92% of survey respondents agreed or strongly agreed that students have access and choice in electives and extracurricular programs.  80% of survey respondents agreed or strongly agreed that students are prepared to be college and career ready. 86% of survey respondents agreed or strongly agreed that students are engaged at school. 86% of survey respondents agreed or strongly agreed that our schools are safe. 77% of survey respondents agreed or strongly agreed that our schools support the social-emotional well-being of all students. 80% of survey respondents agreed or strongly agreed that student feedback and participation are highly encouraged by their school. In analyzing the survey findings, the District has determined that a majority of our students believe that our schools are safe and provide connectedness for students. As an example, an overwhelming majority of student respondents answered affirmatively that schools were safe for students. This was representative of elementary, middle, and high school student respondents. In addition, a strong majority (77%) found our schools supported the social-emotional well-being of all students and 79% reported that they receive support and help from the school counselors. This data point provided affirmation on our shared focus of high academic achievement while supporting the social-emotional health of our students.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
37754160000000|Warner Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
15638420000000|Wasco Union Elementary|6|District stakeholders chose specific questions from the  California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to measure the change between the administration of the survey taken in October 2017 to the survey taken in 2018 for comparative purposes.  For the review, the pre-selected questions were used to measure the growth or decline of student attitudes, perceptions, and realities facing them in Wasco Schools in 2018.  Fifth-grade students participated in the survey for the first time in 2017. Change data is now reported under the criteria section demonstrating year over year change for the first time.    MEANING: The comparative results from 2017 to 2018 demonstrated a decline in student attitudes in all measured areas at Thomas Jefferson Middle School.  The school experienced a transition to new administration during the school year, and teachers reported improved teaching conditions and increases in morale over the previous year, which is in contradiction to how students felt.  Thomas Jefferson also posted its highest-ever gains in academics as measured by 2019 CAASPP test scores in English Language Arts and Math.  The results of the California Healthy Kids Survey clearly show that student morale was not as strong, and stakeholders are working to determine the root cause.  Comparison data at the 5th grade level demonstrated consistent data between 2017 and 2018 administration of the CHKS.  USE:  During the 2019-2020 school year, the district implemented its plan to separate its only middle school of 7th and 8th-grade students and open a second middle school and shifting 6th-grade students to those schools.  The result created two much smaller schools with smaller class sizes.  With the addition of this middle school, the district doubled support staff personnel for 6-8 students.  A counselor, dean, vice-principal, principal, health clerk, parent liaison, academic coach, and "alternative to suspension" support staff among others were added to reduce the student to faculty ratio for these students.  After the district established new residency boundaries for all schools in the district, no school has an ADA of over 650 students.  These smaller neighborhood school boundaries were carefully cut out of the community to maintain small class sizes and equitable access for unduplicated subgroups.  Vice principals are charged with identifying program weaknesses in CHKS to further build strong school climates at all grades.  Principals at the middle schools work closely to build an academic culture at each school that is positive and focused on skills needed to be successful in higher education and the workplace.  The district expanded its Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) program to the 6th grade and now spans both middle schools in grades six through eight.  AVID's implementation is attributed to a spike in connectedness as demonstrated in the CHKS results reported in last year's California 2017 School Dashboard results.|2019-10-08|DATA: Student Perception of School Climate - 7th Grade  Change Between 2017 and 2018 CHKS Survey Administration  (Student response options: Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Disagree nor Agree, Agree, and Strongly Agree)  1. I feel like I am part of this school.  7th Grade - 55% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 65% agreed/strongly agree in 2017 Result -10% 5th Grade - 78% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 79% agree/strongly agree in 2017 Result: -1% 2. The teachers at this school treat me fairly.  7th Grade - 55% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 69% agree/strongly agree in 2017 Result:14% 5th Grade - 91% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 89% agree/strongly agree in 2017 Result:+2% 3. I feel safe in my school. 7th Grade - 53% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 68% agree/strongly agree in 2017 Result: 15% 5th Grade - 80% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 80% agree/strongly agree in 2017 Result: 0% 4. I try hard at work because I am interested in my work.  7th Grade - 66% agreed/strongly agreed in 2018 - 70% agreed/strongly agreed in 2017 Result:-4% (No 5th Grade Matching Question) 5. At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who really cares about me. 7th Grade - 62% report this as pretty much true or very much true in 2018 89% - 67% of report this as pretty much true or very much true in 2017 89% Result: -5% 5th Grade - 90% agreed or strongly agreed in 2018 - 89% agreed or strongly agreed in 2017 Result:+1%|Met|2019
15638590000000|Wasco Union High|6|DATA: The key learning from the annual administration of the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) and the local Student Equity Survey is that the majority of students have generally positive responses to school, their teachers, their peers, and the climate of their school campus. In some cases, the positive survey responses were very strong, while other areas of the survey were mildly positive but indicated there is room for improvement.  MEANING: The analysis of this data indicates the great majority of students (about 90% or more) feel safe, connected, and engaged in school while about 10% do not. Additionally, nearly the same percentages hold true for truancy; about 72% of 9th Grade students and 55% of 11th Grade students have not cut class in the last 12 months and an additional 14% from both grade levels have only cut class 1-2 times in the last 12 months.  While some of the percentages improve from Grade 9 to Grade 11 (Feeling Safe), others are about the same (Academic Motivation) or slightly decline from Grade 9 to Grade 11 (School Connectedness). Overall, there does not appear to be a significant difference between student perception from 9th to 11th grade or to the non-traditional (NT) school.   USE: The Wasco Union High School District will seek to continue providing a healthy, equitable environment for all students to learn. The District continues to aim at reducing truancy by providing a positive and engaging environment through the use of an Attendance Monitor, School Resource Officer, and SARB process and believes that these tools have helped to keep attendance rates high. The District also continues to promote a positive learning environment by maintaining a relevant curriculum, a broad course of study, and high quality instructional strategies in all classrooms.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
10625130000000|Washington Colony Elementary|6|During the 2016-17 School Year, Washington Colony administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 6-8 grade students in order to provide a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness.  The results of the survey show scale scores that range approximately from 100 to 500 with high scores representing more positive school climates, higher supports and engagement and lower level of violence and substance use at school. Washington Colony School Climate Index Score is at 314.  Therefore, in relation to the State Percentile, Washington Colony is at 63 State Percentile and at 87 percentile in similar schools.  Washington Colony will monitor areas of need based on the CAHKS results and will keep the overall score above 300 in all areas for the next three years. During the 2018-19 School Year, Washington Colony administered the California Healthy Kids Survey to 5th and 6th – 8th grade students in order to provide a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The results of the 5th grade survey showed that 48% of the students feel safe at school Most and All of the time for a positive school climate environment; a 51% of the students feel School Connectedness All the time and 73% of the students feel academically motivated All of the time. The results of the 6th – 8th grade survey showed that 61% of the students feel safe at school Most and All of the time for a positive school climate environment; a 49% of the students feel School Connectedness All the time and 71% of the students feel academically motivated All of the time. The Positive Behavior Interventions & Supports (PBIS) program has been implemented for the past three years and has received the Bronze, Silver and GOLD Awards.  Washington Colony will increase positive reinforcements and incentives in all grade levels.  A new Suicide Prevention policy and Mental Health supports are in place including an All For Youth behavioral health services clinician on-site provided by FCSS.  In addition, the district has hired a Parent Liaison in order to provide systems of support, to increase communication to all families by targeting Chronic Absenteeism and increase student attendance.  As a result of a positive school climate all students will participate in extracurricular activities, educational & enrichment field trips and academic rewards & educational character building assemblies.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
10622406006720|Washington Elementary|6|Due to the district's low response of parents giving students permission to take the CHKS Climate Survey in 2018, students took a local survey developed by site administrators during the fall of 2019. The results were very positive and are shared below: The administration treats me with respect: 96% Strongly Agree/Agree The administration cares about how I’m doing: 91% Strongly Agree/Agree The Office staff treats me with respect: 93% Strongly Agree/Agree Teachers care about how I’m doing: 85% Strongly Agree/Agree  Results of the 2018 CHKS were not reliable due to a response rate of 19% for both 5th and 7th grade students. The results are as follows: Grade 5 School Connectedness 36% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 61% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship - Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Grade 7 School Connectedness 21% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Academic Motivation 41% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Caring Adult Relationship 33%- Responded – Yes, All of the time. High Expectations 44% - Responded – Yes, All of the time. Feel very safe or safe at school 82% - Responded – Yes, All of the time.  Based on the results of both surveys, the district is working with the school sites to continue to provide students with opportunities connecting them to the school. This year, Rafer Johnson Jr. High School is implementing a program called, Capturing Kids’ Hearts. Capturing Kids’ Hearts teaches schools how to create high-achieving centers of learning by strengthening students’ connectedness to others through enhancing healthy bonds with their teachers and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable behavior. Based on this year’s survey results, Rafer Johnson Junior High School has a positive school climate. Reagan School, which serves students in grade 4-8, is implementing a new program called, the Positivity Project. The Positivity Project focuses on building relationships and equipping staff with the training, strategy, and resources to inspire students to build positive relationships, which result in better health, happiness, resiliency and increased student achievement. The district and school sites are already seeing positive results and a change in how we interact with students and staff. We are even more student-focused, and focused on our staffs working with kids and adults in a very positive manner. The district and sites will continue to collect input and data regarding school climate, as well as reflect on the survey itself. Later this year students in grades 4-6 will also complete a school climate survey.  One area of need identified as a result of analyzing data would be to add questions regarding student safety. Questions regarding student safety will be researched and the survey will be revised based on our findings and need.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
57726940135939|Washington Middle College High|6|WMCHS conducts the California Healthy Kids Survey each year. Last year, 100% of 9th graders and 6 out of 7 11th graders participated. Due to the low number of students in 11th grade, many responses were kept confidential, so most reflection was done based on 9th grade responses only. Responses indicate that most students feel safe, cared for, and that staff has high expectations of them. Of note is the low percentage with regards to meaningful participation. After digging deeper into the data, students reported that they didn’t feel they had much agency or input into the crafting of their learning experiences. In response, faculty is collaborating on ways to improve student choice within the classroom, hoping to increase relevance - and subsequently academic performance - for all students.  The general results for 2018-19 were as follows: School Engagement and Supports School connectedness : 75% Academic motivation : 83% Chronic truancy (twice a month or more often): 3% Caring adult relationships: 75% High expectations: 86% Meaningful participation: 43% Facilities upkeep : 94% Parent involvement in school : 63% School Safety: School perceived as very safe or safe 78% Experienced any harassment or bullying: 28% Had mean rumors or lies spread about you: 16% Been afraid of being beaten up: 9% Been in a physical ?ght: 9% Seen a weapon on campus: 34% Substance Use and Mental Health  Current alcohol or drug use: 6% Current marijuana use: 6% Current binge drinking: 0% Very drunk or “high” 7 or more times, ever 3% Been drunk or “high” on drugs at school, ever 0% Current cigarette smoking: 0% Current electronic cigarette use: 3% Experienced chronic sadness/ hopelessness: 22% Considered suicide: 3%|2019-11-14||Met|2019
10767780000000|Washington Unified|6|Washington Unified administers an annual student survey to all students in grades 3-12. In the 2018-19 school year, 1712 students responded to the survey, ensuring representation from each school. According to the surveys, 81% of 9th-12th grade students reported feeling safe at school. 75% of 6th-8th graders feel safe at school and 95% of 3rd-5th graders surveyed feel safe at school.   WUSD is proud that increased efforts and services targeting safety and security over the 2018-19 schoolyear led to an increase in the number of students who reported feeling safe at school.   96% of 3-5th graders surveyed feel that teachers and other grown-ups at school care about them and 74% of students look forward to coming to school every day. 77% of 6-8th graders are involved in school activities and 96% of Washington Union students are involved in a pathway or activities at school.  The implementation of the Pathway model during the 2018-19 schoolyear at Washington Union High School led to an increase in school involvement of 23%.  WUSD values student input. This survey is administered yearly in order to assess the culture and climate of each school site.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
57726940000000|Washington Unified|6|Evaluating “School Connectedness,” overall our 7th grade student reported that 60% feel connected to school where 53% of 9th grade students and 46% of 11th grade students feel connected. Our African-American students in 7th grade reported 34%. Our 9th grade students reported over 50% “School Connectedness” except for American Indian (42%), African-American (42%) and Pacific Islander (44%). Our 11th grade students reported that 44% of Hispanic/Latino, 48% of Asian, and 36% of African-American students feel connected.  Two strategies that Washington Unified School District is employing to support more students who feel connected to school is (1) All principals will disaggregate data to identify students who are not currently taking advantage of school clubs, after school activities and as well as increase promotion of culturally relevant activities. (2) Our Board of Trustees has approved a contract with U.C. Davis’ Transformative Justice partnership that will train administrators and staff with culturally relevant pedagogy and transformative justice principles.  Evaluating student perception of “School Safety,” overall our students reported that 58% in 7th grade; 57% in 9th grade and 53% of 11th grade students feel safe or very safe. Our African-American students in 7th grade (35%) and our Hispanic/Latino population (49%) in 11th grade feel safe at school.  As mentioned above, our partnership with Transformative Justice will support the perception of these two subgroups. Moreover, Washington Unified School District has entered into a partnership with Yolo County Office of Education and Placer County Office of Education to systemically implement Positive Behavioral System of Interventions that will support this perception by focusing on Tier I discipline and behavioral referrals among our students of color. All areas have been incorporated into our Local Control Accountability Plan.|2019-10-24|Additional, Washington Unified is modifying how we collect data in order to receive a more complete picture of both connectiveness and school safety. First, we will expand our Healthy Kids Surveys to promote in the fifth grade to evaluate longitudinally the perception of students. Secondly, we will include the staff and parent survey component. Third, although we have student advisory as well as student feedback system such as round tables in 9-12, Washington Unified intends on establishing additional K-8 student round table discussion forums. This is all in addition to the student LCAP feedback loop.|Met|2019
27662330000000|Washington Union Elementary|6|Annually, the district administers parent, student, and staff satisfaction surveys and every other year administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in grades 5 and 7. Any areas that receive a dissatisfaction rate of 10% or greater are targeted areas of focus for the following school year. In the previous school year, the only area that received a dissatisfaction rate of 10% or higher was with regards to the quality of the math program. As a result, the Washington Union School District will work with the county office and our publisher to support math instructional practices and increase student success.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
50755720000000|Waterford Unified|6|California Healthy Kids Survey: Student perceptions of school connectedness and safety Grades 5, 7, 9 & 11 Results reported at open Board study session: 4.11.2019  DATA: 2018-19 percent reporting high and moderate levels and increase/decrease from 2016-17: School Connectedness: 5th (96%, +1); 7th (89%, -1); 9th (92%, +6); 11th (82%, -2) Feel Safe at school: 5th (81%, +2); 7th (64% +3); 9th (61%, +4); (56%, -4)  MEANING: Overall and disaggregated data show students generally feel connected and safe at school and progress is evident.  In nearly all instances the data exceeded statewide averages.  Opportunity exists to improve students' sense of safety at the upper grades.  USE: The “connectedness” and “feel safe” data informed LCAP actions for LCAP Goals 2 & 3, specifically the expansion of counseling and behavioral supports services, yard supervision, and attendance incentives.|2019-10-10|In addition to the CHKS survey, the district utilizes the California State Accountability Dashboard as well as local data to analyze progress in student attendance, discipline, suspension and expulsion rates.  These data are shared with stakeholder groups to elicit guidance on LCAP actions. The district supports all schools, and particularly our Comprehensive School Improvement (CSI) school (Lucille Whitehead) in understanding the role these data play in gauging school climate and their relationship with CSI criteria.  Local data suggests that Lucille Whitehead Intermediate School will exit CSI status in 2019-20.|Met|2019
44697996119077|Watsonville Charter School of the Arts|6||||Not Met|2019
44772480138909|Watsonville Prep|6|WPS will follow the same path as the other Navigator schools and will implement the Panorama SEL student survey this year.  In the meantime, however, classes start each day with a community meeting mood meter activity.  Students are recognized for their social as well as academic growth and achievements.|2019-06-18||Met|2019
19647336114912|Watts Learning Center|6|Findings Reported:   PARTICIPATION RATE: In Spring 2019: WLC – Elementary School administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS).  A total of 15 students in grade 3, participated and completed the survey, an overall 19% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: The following are the student survey findings:  In the area of school connectedness: • 71% agreed that there are caring adults at the school.  • 90% agreed that the adults at the school have high expectations for all students. • 66% agreed that students are provided with meaningful participation at the school.  • 81% agreed they feel a sense of connectedness at the school. • 100% agreed that they feel safe at school.  The school’s Administrative Team and staff will use student survey findings to improve staff and student relationships, continue to teach students problem-solving techniques, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment. In addition, the Principal and school staff will collaborate to strengthen and inform students of schoolwide policies and procedures, including the school’s core values in order to improve school climate.    Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rate on the Student Survey for the Spring 2020 administration as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
19647330120527|Watts Learning Center Charter Middle|6|Findings Reported:   PARTICIPATION RATE: WLC – Middle School administered the CA Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) to grades 6-8.  A total of 205 students participated and completed the survey, an overall 50% student participation rate.   SURVEY FINDINGS: 2018-19: 50% Participation Rate (n = 205 students)  • 81% of grade 6, 70% grade 7, and 70% grade 8 students agreed that there are caring adults at the school.  • 89% of grade 6, 83% grade 7, 83% grade 8 students agreed that the adults at the school have high expectations for all students.  • 39% of grade 6, 36% grade 7, and 35% grade 8 students agreed that students are provided with meaningful participation at the school.  • 75% of grade 6, 64% of grade 7, and 64% of grade 8 students agreed they feel a sense of connectedness at the school.  • 79% of grade 6, 69% of grade 7, and 64% of grade 8 students agree/strongly agreed that they feel safe at school.  The school’s Administrative Team and staff will use student survey findings to improve staff and student relationships, continue to teach students problem-solving techniques, and continue to improve student-to-school connectedness, in order to provide all students with a positive learning environment. In addition, the Principal and school staff will collaborate to strengthen and inform students of schoolwide policies and procedures, including the school’s core values in order to improve school climate.    Additionally, the Principal and school staff will work diligently to increase student participation rate on the Student Survey for the Spring 2020 administration as outlined in the school’s LCAP.|2019-09-12||Met|2019
49709950000000|Waugh Elementary|6|The Waugh School District prides itself on establishing a positive school climate which fosters student success. The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered in the District every two years to fifth grade students and 2019/2020 is an administration year. On the 2017-2018 CHKS survey, 95% of student respondents reported that an adult at school cares about them, 94% reported that they feel treated with respect, and 92% reported that they feel safe at school.  The District’s low suspension rate (0.2% in 2018-2019, 0.64% in 2017-2018, and 0.78% in 2016-2017), and no student expulsions in many years, reflects the safe environment which has been established.    The District continues to implement the Second Step social/emotional learning curriculum. Both schools have adopted the Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) framework for both emphasizing the school-wide behavioral expectations as well as focused behavioral support planning for individual students. Incentive based reward systems, including award assemblies which focus on character traits, are part of programming at both schools. The District will soon expand an already robust anti-bullying program to partner with an agency to deliver anti-bias training to students and staff members. The District is in the process of rolling out a structured digital citizenship scope and sequence plan for all students during the current school year.  Other programs which support a positive climate include the District’s school counseling program, regular emergency drills connected to the safety plan, and modern facilities that are very well kept.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
54722640000000|Waukena Joint Union Elementary|6|In Spring 2018, Waukena Joint Union Elementary School administered a survey to our 6 through 8 grade students receiving Tobacco-Use Prevention Education (TUPE) through the COE. The survey measured student perception of safety and connectedness and included additional questions that measured social and emotional learning (SEL) competencies. Data from the survey is utilized to better understand the effectiveness of school climate initiatives. The data has been disaggregated and reports summarized to enable staff and administrators to identify and address students’ sense of safety and their sense of belonging (or school connectedness).  o The overall outcome of student favorability for safety was 80%  o The overall favorability for connectedness to school was 98%  Additionally, focus group interviews were conducted with teachers, staff and parents. The responses from both the teachers and parents report a positive school climate observed by the relationships between teachers and students, physical and emotional safety, and academic and the emotional supports that are in place to help students succeed.|2019-10-14||Met|2019
24658620000000|Weaver Union|6|Results from the California Healthy Kids Survey indicate strong support for school connectedness and school safety. 75% of our students in 5th grade feel safe at school and 71% of 5th graders feel connected to their schools. 52% of our students in 7th grade feel safe at school (up 4% from previous) and 56% of 7th graders feel connected to their schools (up 20% from previous).|2019-11-13|Our District has developed a local Dashboard at the following link to provide more detailed information.  Please visit our Local Dashboard at:  http://weaverusd.lcapdashboard.org/|Met|2019
47704820000000|Weed Union Elementary|6|All third through eighth grade students were surveyed in the spring, according to our survey results: 94.8% of our students feel safe in classes, 93.1% of our students feel safe outside of class, 94.8% of our students feel their teachers like and care for them, 95.7% of students feel the school respects all races and cultures, 88.1% of our students care about learning and getting a good education, 87.1% of our students feel they belong and are accepted and liked at school, 93.1% of our students feel the principal treats students respectfully and 96.5% of our students feel staff is respectful.  Overall, our students feel safe, they belong, are respected and cared for by staff and care about their learning.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19647336019855|Welby Way Charter Elementary School And Gifted-High Ability Magnet|6|The 4th and 5th grade students at Welby Way participated in the School Experience Survey during Fall of 2018. There was 96% student participation rate for this survey. The following are the results that pertain to school climate. The percentage of students indicating “Agree” and “Strongly Agree” is noted next to the question.  1) I am happy to be at this school. 91% 2) I feel like I am a part of this school. 86%  3) I feel accepted for who I am at this school. 86%  4) I feel safe at this school. 92%  5) Teachers at this school treat students fairly. 90% Welby Way fosters a safe, respectful, and caring school environment through implementation of the LAUSD School Wide Positive Behavior Intervention and Support Program. Our Safe School and Positive Behavior Committee meets regularly to analyze data, collaborates on ideas for improvement, and uses the Rubric of Implementation to evaluate school climate. Our monthly Honors Assemblies celebrates students who exemplify these characteristics, among other virtues:  kindness, respect, good citizenship, and perseverance.  Student Council contributes ideas for increasing school spirit and fostering good citizenship.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
07617960000000|West Contra Costa Unified|6|Last February, 3rd through 12th grade students took the Youth Truth survey. The survey measures student perceptions in terms of Engagement, Academic Rigor, Relationships, Instructional Methods, Belonging & Peer Collaboration, Culture, and College & Career Readiness. For each survey area, the district received a rating and a percentile.    A total of 6,868 elementary school students (79% response rate) took the survey and rated their schools in the following categories: Engagement (2.81 rating/13th percentile), Academic Rigor (2.47 rating/27th percentile), Instructional Methods (2.53 rating/23rd percentile), Relationships (2.65 rating/20th percentile), and Culture (2.10 rating/26th percentile).  A total of 3,066 middle school students (82% response rate) took the survey and rated their schools in the following categories: Engagement (3.22 rating/8th percentile), Academic Rigor (3.59 rating/12th percentile), Relationships (3.11 rating/7th percentile), Belonging and Peer Collaboration (3.26 rating/24th percentile), and Culture (3.07 rating/25th percentile).  A total of 5,242 high school students (66% response rate) took the survey and rated their schools in the following categories: Engagement (3.40 rating/20th percentile), Academic Rigor (3.61 rating/14th percentile), Relationships (3.40 rating/41st percentile), Belonging and Peer Collaboration (3.33 rating/36th percentile), Culture (3.15 rating/41st percentile), and College and Career Readiness (3.25 rating/36th percentile).|2019-10-23||Met|2019
49706070135327|West County Charter Middle|6||||Not Met|2019
19650940000000|West Covina Unified|6|The West Covina Unified School District administered its local climate survey in the spring of 2019 to its elementary and secondary students, parents, and teachers. The climate survey has been administered annually for the past six years. Students in grades 2-12, parents, and teachers were surveyed on a range of items that assessed their feelings and opinions about their school experience, including items that specifically assessed their feelings of safety and connectedness at school. Respondents were asked if they agreed, strongly agreed, disagreed or strongly disagreed with key statements such as feeling safe at school, ease of making friends, morale, and their sense of belonging at school. As of the spring of 2019, 80% of 2nd-12th grade students surveyed reported feeling safe at school and 77% of students surveyed reported feelings of connectedness to their schools as measured by the climate survey. Parents of students, including unduplicated pupils and targeted student groups, in the West Covina Unified School District were also surveyed with the local climate survey. 93% of parents surveyed agreed or strongly agreed that district schools are safe and 95% reported feelings of connectedness to the school. Teachers were also surveyed with the local climate survey, and 87% reported feeling safe at school and 84% reported feelings of connectedness to their schools. While there was an improvement over last year and the majority of students, parents, and teachers surveyed continue to report feeling safe and connected to school as measured by the climate survey, there is still improvement to be made. The West Covina Unified School District will continue to implement services and programs to improve upon these measures, such as our district-wide safety protocols and drills; comprehensive counseling program; anti-bullying efforts; mental health awareness and support clubs; and implementation of programs to strengthen students’ connectedness to others by enhancing healthy bonds with teachers and staff and establishing collaborative agreements of acceptable and positive behavior.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
10625396112387|West Park Charter Academy|6|Survey results show that a very high percentage of Charter students feel like they are part of the school and that they feel safe there. The survey also shows that the students feel like there is an adult at school that listens to any issues they might be having and encourage them to always do their best.|2019-10-14|Met|Met|2019
10625390000000|West Park Elementary|6|The survey shows that there is a positive feeling towards the safety of the campus. Students also feel they have input on what happens at school. Some students feel that the school can improve on cleanliness.|2019-10-14|Priority 6 - Met|Met|2019
49710010000000|West Side Union Elementary|6|Local educational agency administered a local climate survey as required at least every other year that provides a valid measure of perceptions of school safety and connectedness. The following data is from 2018-2019.  93% of survey respondents indicated that West Side is safe place for their child, 96% of respondents indicated that West Side has clean and well maintained facilities and 98% indicated that West Side has adults that care about students.  In providing a variety of opportunities for parent participation at school, 94% of respondents strongly agreed/agreed that West Side encouraged parents to be an active partner with the school in educating their child. 87% of respondents stated that they strongly agree/agree that West Side allows for parent input and welcomes parent contributions. 115 parent/guardians completed volunteer training in order to volunteer in the classrooms and/or field trips.  Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) was implemented. Student survey will be implemented in 2019-2020. No verified instances of bullying.  98% indicated that West Side has adults that care about students.   93% of survey respondents indicated that West Side is a safe place for their child, 96% of respondents indicated that West Side has clean and well maintained facilities.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
49706070000000|West Sonoma County Union High|6|The District administered the CHKS to 9th and 11th graders in the spring of 2018. The response rate was 83%, Results show the following percentages of agreement with the statements listed: 64% say that there is a teacher or adult that really cares about them. 73% say they feel safe at school. 42% says parents feel welcome to participate in the school. 35% experienced harassment of some kind on school grounds in the last 12 months, 27% have used drugs in the last 30 days, 11% on school property. 43% have used an e-cigarette or other vaping device. The district will further examine results to determine changes in actions to the LCAP to address these issues.|2019-11-13||Met|2019
33670820120675|Western Center Academy|6|Through our student, parent, senior exit, and LCAP surveys we found: 96% of students agree that they can easily access their counselor when needed 99% of students agree that they have the opportunity to participate in extracurricular activities 99% of graduating seniors agreed that WCA is a safe and orderly campus 100% of seniors agreed that they had adequate access to personal support services 95% feel like there is an adult who cares about them at the school In order to reach this level of success, WCA has focused a great deal of time and attention to Social Emotional Learning (SEL). We have involved parents in the process and continue to refine our SEL programs. We will continue to increase and improve our SEL until every student is happy, healthy and succeeding academically.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
31669510000000|Western Placer Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) was administered in the spring of 2018.  We plan to administer the CHKS again in the spring of 2020.   The spring 2018 CHKS highlighted some district strengths: - 86% of elementary students feel they are treated with respect. (No similar question was asked on the secondary questionnaire.) - 68% of students (at both the elementary and secondary levels) feel safe at school.    The survey also brought some challenges to the surface: - Less than 20% of students (at both the elementary and secondary levels) feel they are given opportunities to “meaningfully participate” in their school communities. - Only 42% of students identify themselves as being highly motivated to succeed in school. - 21% of 11th graders admit to current alcohol or drug use. - Over 30% of high schoolers express feelings of chronic sadness and/or hopelessness.  Our district continues to hone its work in the area of Youth Development.  The youth development framework identifies five supports and opportunities that youth need to become healthy, productive adults: safety, relationships, youth participation, community involvement, and skill building. Close to 200 staff members have participated in a four-day Youth Development Institute and 15 staff have been further trained as trainers of youth development. Schools have worked diligently to improve safety and relationships with and for students. PBIS has been implemented at more than half of our school sites and staff continue to receive training and support from our Mental Health Specialist, whom we hired as part of LCAP to support PBIS and students' mental health. Based on parent feedback and the results of the 2018 CHKS, WPUSD partners with Wellness Together to provide additional mental health services at all school sites.|2019-10-15|WPUSD’s suspension rates and expulsion rates are low and have been on a downward trajectory for the last few years.   That being said, some of our subgroups (African-Americans, Pacific Islanders) are suspended at higher rates than our overall student population. We are working diligently to address that issue.  We have a full-time School Resource Officer who assists with issues related to attendance and school safety.|Met|2019
31750850119487|Western Sierra Collegiate Academy|6|Rocklin Academy Family of Schools envisions a school community that inspires its students to excel academically, pursue their passions, and impact the world with excellence.  In order for this vision to come to fruition, it is important that students feel safe and connected at school.  In an effort to measure perceptions of connectedness and safety,  Rocklin Academy seeks input from stakeholders, including students on a regular basis by participating in local surveys.  One of these is the California Healthy Kids Survey which was administered in grade 5, 7, 9 and 11 in the winter of 2019.  Results serve to measure the organization’s progress on state Priority Six, School Climate.  Because of the recalibration of norms by WestEd, the survey developer, overall results cannot be compared to those reported the previous year at this time but will be used as a baseline for future data. LCAP Goal 1, Action 3.0 and 3.1 focus on building connections across all four Rocklin Academy schools and identifies events and activities to connect the sites, increasing the number of opportunities for students to develop a sense of connectedness to their school.  Additionally, Rocklin Academy has identified ways to promote student safety and each site has created plans to help students make connections.  LCAP Goal 2 states, “The school environment cultivates students who are responsible, compassionate and engaged citizens.”  LCAP actions and services have been identified to support expected outcomes to include the following:  continued development and implementation of the Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS), Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS), and social emotional learning curriculum, In Focus.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
34752830108860|Westlake Charter|6|Westlake Charter School (WCS) utilizes a multi-tiered approach to develop and maintain a favorable school climate. One of the elements the school has implemented is school-wide Responsive Classroom practices as well as Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS). Responsive Classroom practices focus on building a positive classroom community. Every classroom K-8 holds a daily Morning Meeting or Advisory Meeting.   Additionally, WCS has created a PBIS team to oversee and direct PBIS initiatives. This PBIS team, consisting of school administration, teachers, and support staff, regularly conducts student surveys from each of the designated grade spans to gather data on areas in need of improvement on campus. The PBIS team looks at the survey results each year and uses the results to create professional development for Certificated and Classified staff with a focus on the areas of growth as indicated by the survey. In the fall of 2019, WCS, 2nd-8th-grade students took a School Climate Survey. Of the 335 students who completed the survey, 91% indicated that they feel close to an adult on campus, and 95% of the students surveyed stated that they feel proud to be a part of WCS.   Furthermore, students were asked if adults on campus treated them with respect and helped them to resolve conflicts: in both of these areas, over 90% of students responded yes. The area of growth that the PBIS team will be focusing on for the 2019-20 school year is involving student voice in the process of revising school expectations and building school culture. Students will be taking part in the reteaching of common area expectations. Students will also be leading our schoolwide Morning Meetings for K-5th-grade students this year. In Middle School, students will be helping to develop our three advisory Fish Bowls.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
30667460000000|Westminster|6|WSD is committed to providing a safe and supportive learning environment that promotes student connectedness.  Every other year, the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered to 5th and 7th grade students.   The survey looks at the areas of youth resilience, school connectedness and social-emotional safety factors.  The results are shared with school staff as a measure for school climate to create areas of focus for improvement.  The data collected in this survey is aggregated with school suspension and attendance data provide a more comprehensive school site analysis of student engagement.    The 2017-18 survey results for 5th grade showed that 1.  97% of the students feel high or moderate school connectedness, 2.  82% feel safe at school all or most of the time and 3.  84% fee that there are caring adults on campus.  The 7th grade results showed that 1.  94% feel high or moderate school connectedness, 2.  69% feel safe or very safe at school and 3.  87% feel that there are caring adults on campus.  These results showed a small decline in the key areas of school climate from the previous CHKS administration across the district.  In addition, two areas for concern were identified which were the increase in the use of e-cigarette products and the increase reporting of feeling sad or hopeless.  During the 2018-19 school year, increased activities targeted these two areas were implemented specifically at the middle schools.  Tobacco Use Prevention Education assemblies were provided and parent information sessions were held.  At the middle schools, an additional school counselor was hired to provide additional access to mental health supports for students and parents. A district professional development day was held in September 2018 created by the newly formed WSD Discipline Committee.  Suspension and discipline data from 2018-19 showed a decrease by 20% of the number of suspensions from the prior year.   WSD began the first year of implementation of the California MTSS (Multi-tiered systems of support) initiative.  As part of this initiative, a comprehensive system of supports will be designed to support academics, behavior and social-emotional skills for staff, students and families.  As a result, behavior supports have been increased at the elementary and middle schools.  A social-emotional curriculum adoption will begin for adoption in 2020.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
13632300000000|Westmorland Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
10625470000000|Westside Elementary|6|Westside Elementary annually administers a school climate survey to students in third and eighth grade. The survey covers such topics as bullying, school reward and discipline procedures,  and staff expectations and care/concern for students. The results of the survey are overwhelmingly positive. Thanks to our strong PBIS program, we feel that our climate is very positive, we do not experience major discipline issues, and students know their expectations and feel safe, secure and cared for at school.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
34765056112643|Westside Preparatory Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) is administered annually to students in grades 7 – 12. A district developed survey was administered during the 2017-18 school year to students in grade 5. The surveys includes items in a variety of domains measuring school climate and safety.  - 53% of 5th graders had favorable responses to school culture and climate questions. - School Connectedness responses for agree or strongly agree at secondary sites was 59% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th, 42% for 10th and 11th grade, and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups. - School Safety responses for strongly agree at secondary sites was 60% for 7th grade, 56% for 8th grade, 47% for 9th grade, 42% for 10th and 11th grade and 46% for 12th grade with little variation across ethnic subgroups.  –The school connectedness and safety responses showed a small decline from the previous year administration of the CHKS at 7th and 11th grades but also showed gains of 6% at 9th grade. –Efforts to increase school connectedness for secondary sites includes the use of Activity Directors. These positions contribute to increased student engagement before, during, and after school.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19651020000000|Westside Union Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey Student, Staff, and Parent surveys were administered to parents, staff, and students in grades 5 - 8 in January 2018. Modules administered include the Elementary and Middle School Core; Closing the Achievement Gap, and the Resilience and Youth Development Modules.  35% of 5th graders at elementary sites participated in the CHKS.  At the middle school level, 85% of 7th graders and 82% of 8th graders participated.  29% of all 6th graders participated.  Most 6th graders were from elementary sites.  Some were from 6th-grade programs at Hillview or Joe Walker Middle Schools.  A Summary of Key Indicators includes:    School Engagement and Supports  Students reporting a high degree of each of the following:          Connectedness                      5th- 69%      6th- 67%  7th - 61%        8th- 61%         Academic Motivation             5th-  87%     6th- 86%   7th- 76%      8th-77%        Caring adult relationships       5th- 69%      6th-63% 7th-60% 8th- 65%        High Expectations                   5th-83%       6th-81% 7th- 74% 8th- 76%        Meaningful Participation          5th-35%      6th-32% 7th-26% 8th- 30%  School Safety  Elementary:  73 % of 5th graders and 71% of 6th graders reported feeling safe at school.  Behavior most negatively impacting this area was “being called names or having mean jokes made about you” with 57% of 5th graders and 54% of 6th graders reported having experienced this. Middle:  68% of 6th graders, 61% of 7th graders, and 61% of 8th graders reported feeling safe at school.  The behavior most negatively impacting this area for middle schoolers was “was being made fun of, insulted, or called names ” with   37% of 6th graders, 36% of 7th graders, and 35% of 8th graders have experienced this at least two times during the past 12 months.   Disciplinary Environment   Elementary:  % of students responding “all or most of the time” to the following: Students are well-behaved                                        5th-42%   6th - 42% Students are treated fairly when they break a school rule. 5th-58%  6th- 57% 7th-56%   8th-43% Students are treated with respect.                             5th- 80%  6th- 76% 7th-67%  8th-52%  Substance Use; Mental and Physical Health 17% of 5th and 19 % of 6th reported ever using alcohol or drugs; % 2 of 5th and 0 % of 6th reported ever having smoked cigarettes;2% of 5th and 1 % of 6th reported ever having smoked an e-cigarette. 3% of 6th, 5%of 7th, 7% of 8th reported using alcohol or drugs within the past 30 days.  3% of 6th, 1%of 7th, 0% of 8th reported smoking cigarettes within the past 30 days.  0% of 6th, 3%of 7th, 3% of 8th reported smoking e-cigarettes within the past 30 days.  25% of 5th, 25% of 6th, 29% of 7th, 32% of 8th reported experiencing chronic sadness/hopelessness with the past 12 months.|2019-10-15|Providing the most positive, nurturing school climate for students, staff, and parents is a priority for District staff.   To address the low percentage of students at the elementary and middle school level who indicated that they felt that their thoughts and opinions mattered in school-related decisions, an area of focus continues to be providing intentional and meaningful opportunities for student students to participate in decision-making opportunities at the classroom and school site levels.  Programs, services, and activities designed to support a positive, nurturing school climate and to develop the habits of mind and skill sets that support self-efficacy include:  counseling support at all schools; collaboration with community mental health agencies to provide School-Based Mental Health support for eligible students at all schools; district-wide implementation of BoysTown including professional learning opportunities for certificated and classified staff; and districtwide implementation of Fulcrum’s Leadership Development through Physical Education.  Also of concern to staff and parents were the percentages of middle school students who reported feeling sad and/or hopeless (25% of 6th graders; 29% of 7th graders; and 32% of 8th graders).  A team of counselors and psychologists completed training for trainers in resiliency and suicide prevention in Fall 2019.  They will be conducting training for staff and parents throughout the school year.|Met|2019
19647336019939|Westwood Charter Elementary|6|The annual School Experience Survey is administered to all 4th and 5th grade students.  The student participation rate in the 2018-19 survey was 92%.  The used  following questions  pertain to school climate and the percentage of students who indicated Strong Agree or Agree are noted next to each question: 1. Are you happy to be at this school? 88% 2. Do you feel like you are part of this school? 83% 3. Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 83% 4. Do you feel save at this school? 90% 5. Do adults at this school treat students with respect? 80%|2019-10-10||Met|2019
18642040000000|Westwood Unified|6|The Westwood USD utilized The Self-Reflection Tool for Priority 3: Parent Engagement.  In the area of Building Relationships the stakeholders felt that the LEA's progress was in the Initial Implementation stage.  In the area of Building Partnerships for Student Outcomes the stake holders felt the LEA had a range from Beginning Development to Full Implementation.  In the area of Seeking Input for Decision Making the LEA's progress was rated as Full Implementation by stake holders.  The strength of the survey revealed the LEA to be at Full Implementation in Seeking Input for Decision Making and Full Implementation for progress in providing professional learning and support to teachers and principals to improve a school's capacity to partner with families.  The LEA's weakness was identified as providing families with information and resources to support student learning and development in the home.  The action that the LEA took was to hire a school guidance counselor during the second semester of school year.  The school guidance counselor started the new school year in his present role.  The result is a resource that supports student learning and development in the home.|2019-05-15|The Westwood USD utilized the Healthy Kids Survey to gain insight into the LEA's affectiveness.  The results were far ranging and differed between the two schools based on perceptions and needs.  In the catagory of Student Learning Environment: the areas of strength revealed that 67% feel that WUSD is a supportive and inviting place for students to learn, 67% believe every student can be a success and 67% believe Westwood USD is welcoming to and facilitates parent involvement.  One challenge is that only 29% felt that we set high standards for academic performance for all. In the category of Staff Working Environment:  83% believe WUSD is a supportive and inviting place for staff to work.  67% feel WUSD promotes trust and collegiality among staff.  In the category of safety:  67% believe WUSD is a safe place for staff, while only 33% felt it was safe for students.  In the category of Student Discipline and Support:  Growth is needed in the area of handles discipline fairly 29% and provides adequate counseling and support services 14%.  In the category of Positive Relationships:  83% believe we really care about every student.  In the category of Student Behavior:  17% felt students were motivted to learn which is a challenge.  Actions taken by WUSD in response to the results were to secure a school guidence counselor and to enforce the discipline rubric that aligns with the student handbook.  The MTSS system is being initiated as well with trainings taking place during PD.|Met|2019
58727510000000|Wheatland|6|Wheatland School District completed the CA Healthy Kids Survey this year|2019-06-27|The 2017-2020 LCAP that was adopted in June outlined the parent engagement activities and the impact the activities had on the planning process.|Met|2019
58727516118806|Wheatland Charter Academy|6|Wheatland School District completed the CA Healthy Kids Survey this year which included the Charter School Students|2019-10-17|The 2017-2020 LCAP that was adopted in June outlined the parent engagement activities and the impact the activities had on the planning process.|Met|2019
58727690000000|Wheatland Union High|6|At Wheatland Union High School we strive to create a positive and safe campus culture where every student feels connected to campus. The foundation of this culture is a philosophy known as ‘Honor the Code.’ The PIRATES Code is an acronym that stands for Perseverance, Integrity, Respect, Attitude, Teamwork, Excellence, and Scholarship. Students are actively encouraged to embody the characteristics of the PIRATES Code. This positive campus culture is further promoted through weekly school wide student activities including athletic tournaments, live bands, and school spirit activities. In our most recent WASC review, our campus culture was cited as one of the strongest aspects of WUHS. In the most recent (2018-19) California Healthy Kids Survey, 95% of freshmen and 87% of juniors reported that the following statement was either Very much true, Pretty much true, or A little true: “At my school, there is a teacher or some other adult who always wants me to do my best.” Furthermore, 82% of freshmen and 80% of juniors were either neutral, agreed, or strongly agreed with the statement: “I feel safe in my school.” The California Healthy Kids Survey is posted on both our school and district websites and was presented to the district governing board over several board meetings at the beginning of the school year.  Presentation of the California Healthy Kids Survey to the governing board included data on student connectedness, school safety, and student mental health.|2019-10-09|Community partners include the Yuba County Office of Education Anti-Tobacco Coalition, Yuba County Assessment Team (YCAT), Yuba County Blue Ribbon Commission, Yuba County SELPA Community Advisory Committee, Yuba County Foster Youth Services, Yuba County Sheriff’s Department, Yuba County Probation Services,  Child Protective Services, Sutter/Yuba Behavioral Health, Yuba/Sutter Arts Commission, and Suicide Prevention Services.|Met|2019
41690216044788|White Oaks Elementary|6|SCSD administers the Panorama Student Survey to students annually and these results are used to shape LCAP goals. The results below (% favorable) were reported by students on the spring 2019 survey and reported to the Board on May 23, 2019.   White Oaks Safety: 89% Sense of Belonging: 84% Supportive Relationships: 95%  Goal 4 of SCSD’s LCAP specifically targets student engagement and sense of belonging:  Ensure Equitable Access to Learning for all Students and Increase Student Engagement and Sense of Belonging Within Each School Community. Specific actions have been established to address school climate, sense of belonging, active participation, caring adults and high expectations. Ensuring more student voice and choice, increasing student engagement opportunities and Project-Based Learning, and implementing Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS), and beginning to develop a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) across all schools were identified as high impact actions.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
49708966052047|Whited Elementary Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was last administered in the Spring of 2018.  At that time, 78% of 5th graders and 73% of 7th graders reported feeling safe at school "all" or "most" of the time. Rincon Valley Union School District administers a local student survey annually. In 2018-19, 81% of elementary students and 81% of middle school students reported feeling safe at school "always" or "often." In addition, 84% of elementary students and 83% of middle school students reported that they are "always" or "often" happy to be at this school. The school district decided to continue providing professional development for more social emotional programs for staff to implement.  The 7th and 8th grade charter school also implemented the Stop It program for students to have a safe way to report incidents to staff.  We have heard from staff and parents for the ongoing need for counselors at our school sites to support the development of social emotional skills.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
50710430107136|Whitmore Charter High|6|In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey that is given every 2 years to students in grades 9-12, the district provides the Safe and Civil Schools Survey to students in grades 9-12 each year. Results are provided and analyzed at the grade, school, and district levels. Data related to each of these metrics is reported in the Local Control Accountability Plan.  An area of growth for Whitmore Charter is disaggregation and analysis of student survey results broken down by different student groups.   Summary of survey results include: *Adults are helpful to students:  72% *Adults treat students fairly: 74% *Adults treat students respectfully:  73% *Adults encourage students to do their best:  81% *If students have a problem, they know they can go to a staff member for help:  70%  *I am proud to be part of this school:  69%|2019-10-30||Met|2019
50710430107128|Whitmore Charter School of Art & Technology|6|In addition to the California Healthy Kids Survey that is given every 2 years to students in grades 7-8, the district provides the Safe and Civil Schools Survey to students in grades 2-8 each year. Results are provided and analyzed at the grade, school, and district levels. Data related to each of these metrics is reported in the Local Control Accountability Plan.  An area of growth for Whitmore Charter is disaggregation and analysis of student survey results broken down by different student groups.   Summary of survey results include: *Adults are helpful to students:  76% *Adults treat students fairly:  81% *Adults treat students respectfully: 85% *Adults encourage students to do their best:  91% *If students have a problem, they know they can go to a staff member for help:  76% *I am proud to be part of this school:  Elementary:  77%|2019-10-30||Met|2019
45701690000000|Whitmore Union Elementary|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
19651100000000|Whittier City Elementary|6|The Whittier City School District administers the LCAP Student Survey every Spring.  In 2019, the Student LCAP Survey was administered to all students in 2nd-8th grades.  A total of 3,472 students responded to the survey.  In addition, the Whittier City School District administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to students in 5th-8th grades.  Both surveys collect data to indicate how safe students feel at school and how connected they feel to their school.  Both surveys provide us with valuable information to develop programs to support student needs in the area of school safety and connectedness.   As a result of our data analysis, one key learning emerged; a higher percentage of middle school students feel less connected to school than in our elementary schools.  Our LCAP Survey Data showed positive results in both elementary and middle school.  However, our California Healthy Kids Survey demonstrated a need to focus on feelings of school connectedness in middle school.  Administrators and counseling staff will analyze PBIS data collected on a monthly basis to monitor progress in this area.  Middle School Counselors were provided with professional development and collaboration time with School Social Workers to support one another in the development of best practices to meet the growing social emotional and mental health demands middle school students are facing.  In addition, the Second Step curriculum was purchased and implemented to develop social-emotional competence, increase confidence and self-esteem, and problem solving skills. The Second Step curriculum has been shown to decrease negative behaviors, promote school success, self-regulation, and a sense of safety and support.  PBIS is a well-established initiative in all schools in WCSD.  Over the course of several years of implementation, WCSD has experienced an overall decrease in suspensions in particular at the middle school level.  In addition, administrators, teachers, and all staff have increased knowledge of best practices in teaching positive behaviors and building strong, supportive, positive behaviors.  Middle school PBIS data and counseling logs will be used to determine appropriate interventions and programs to support the well-being and feelings of safety in school.  All schools will continue to focus on PBIS and the implementation of practices and building positive, connected school cultures.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
19651280000000|Whittier Union High|6|The District determined this standard was met through analysis of the last administration of the District’s Student Opinion Survey. In terms of safety, most students felt their school was a safe place to be always or mostly (84% of students, up from 77% two years ago). Most students (81%) thought that students were treated with respect by staff at the school; whereas 74% of the students felt they were treated with respect by other students at the school. Despite the positive climate, it is of concern that 40% of the students stated that all or many of the students they knew used illegal drugs; additionally, 40% of students stated that all or many of the students they knew were involved in abusing alcohol on a regular basis. On a positive note, there has been a dramatic increase in students’ knowing and understanding the discipline rules, increasing 10% from 79% of students two years ago up to 89% of students the prior year. In terms of connectedness, the majority of students (75%) can usually meet with a counselor within one to two days and 79% of students check assignments and grades on the Aeries Student Portal at least once a week, while only 31% of parents are checking the portal of their child. Students also stated that 51% of parents have not made any visits for parent conferences or school-related activities. Discussions about results that differ between subgroups and schools are held on a weekly basis at the Superintendent’s Council, with actions planned and implemented throughout the year.|2019-10-08|Complementing the results from the local Student Opinion Survey, which is given every other year, are the results of the Parent Survey, which is given every year. Results on these surveys are tabulated and compared longitudinally to further extend the analysis and to uncover trends that may occur. From this year’s Parent Survey, 94% of the parents stated they felt welcome when they came to the school; 94% of parents stated there was good communication between the school and parents; 92% felt comfortable communicating with teachers regarding questions or concerns; 90% felt comfortable communicating with administration/principal regarding questions or concerns; and, 88% felt school promoted understanding and acceptance among racially, ethnically, and culturally diverse student body.|Met|2019
19647336019954|Wilbur Charter For Enriched Academics|6|LAUSD administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey during the spring semester. The following are the results that pertain to school climate: Over 81% of the students at Wilbur Charter feel accepted and 81% of students feel safe. Over half of the students at Wilbur Charter feel as the kids at this school are kind to one another.  In order to encourage more kindness and acceptance at our school, we will continue to implement Character Counts school-wide; continue to implement Restorative Justice activities throughout the school and classrooms; continue to provide teachers and staff members with District training and in-school professional development on Restorative Justice practices; continue to engage students in monthly discipline assemblies; continue sending out Blackboard announcements on the monthly Pillars of Character and encourage parents work with their children at home as to what being a "Good Citizen" looks like at home, at school, and in the community; and continue to provide parents with the Wilbur Charter for Enriched Academics School Discipline Policy and Behavior Code Contract for students and parents to sign and return to the school|2019-10-15||Met|2019
19646340101667|Wilder's Preparatory Academy Charter|6|Students are their parents/guardians are provided a survey once a year. After recent feedback from our parents, they agreed the school should survey more often. This year a survey will be provided each trimester to gain feedback from teachers, students and their families. Recent survey parents would like to see more visual and performing arts offerings. Though the school has extra-curricular activities like athletics, Step Team and Choir, we do not offer classes during the school day. Parents and students also wanted more electives like Spanish, robotics and coding. Parents also commented wanting more workshops on Math and reading strategies. They included an interest in workshops for Common Core Math and Science Fair projects. Students report feeling safe at school and state there is at least one adult they can talk to or ask for advise. Parents report wanting more information on student progress and ways to support their student at home. Parents believe the school is challenging and their child(ren) is expected to do well and achieve. Students report teachers are fair with grading but want more opportunities to re-take a test or assignment. Parents state Class Dojo, weekly "all calls" and school website are useful tools for communication. They also noted phone trees or Room Parent support would help new families feel more supported. Students and parents report more family activities are needed to get to know each other.  Wilder's will continue to create more opportunities for students to grow as leaders. This includes extra-curricular activities like sports, oratorical competitions, Student Council and additional support like boys and girls mentoring groups. Family outings like bowling and ice skating night have been planned to allow more families to get to know each other and interact with the Wilder's staff. Parent workshops are developed from the feedback given from  parents/guardians in parent meetings and conferences. Online surveys will continued to be used to create opportunity for all families to provide feedback. Feedback and action plans will be publicized to create transparency.|2019-06-10||Met|2019
19646340116822|Wilder's Preparatory Academy Charter Middle|6|Students are their parents/guardians are provided a survey once a year. After recent feedback from our parents, they agreed the school should survey more often. This year a survey will be provided each trimester to gain feedback from teachers, students and their families. Recent survey parents would like to see more visual and performing arts offerings, especially in the middle school. Though the school has extra-curricular activities like athletics, Step Team and Choir, we do not offer classes during the school day. Parents and students also wanted more electives like Spanish, Robotics and coding. Parents also commented wanting more workshops on Math and reading strategies. They included an interest in workshops for Common Core Math and Science Fair projects. Students report feeling safe at school and state there is at least one adult they can talk to or ask for advise. Parents report wanting more information on student progress and ways to support their student at home. Parents believe the school is challenging and their child(ren) is expected to do well and achieve. Students report teachers are fair with grading but want more opportunities to re-take a test or assignment. Parents state Class Dojo, weekly "all calls" and school website are useful tools for communication. They also noted phone trees or Room Parent support would help new families feel more supported. Students and parents report more family activities are needed to get to know each other.  Wilder's will continue to create more opportunities for students to grow as leaders. This includes clubs in the middle school, Student Council and additional support like boys and girls mentoring groups. Family outings like bowling and ice skating night have been planned to allow more families to get to know each other and interact with the Wilder's staff. Parent workshops are developed from the feedback given from  parents/guardians in parent meetings and conferences. Online surveys will continued to be used to create opportunity for all families to provide feedback. Feedback and action plans will be publicized to create transparency.|2019-06-10||Met|2019
04614240123810|Wildflower Open Classroom|6|Each spring Wildflower Open Classroom administers a school climate survey.  The results of the surveys are collected and reported to the Board of Directors at a regularly scheduled board meeting.  The survey results are presented to the school community at the school’s fall Town Hall Meeting.   The results of the survey are utilized in the following ways: • To create annual Board of Director and School Director goals and initiatives • To create community and parent goals via our parent group, Wildflower Community Council • To create goals on the school’s Local Control Accountability Plan • To create goals for instructional and support staff  All goals are presented at the school’s fall Town Hall Meeting.  Progress is reported at the winter Town Hall Meeting and a final report on progress is reported at the spring Town Hall Meeting.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
11101161130103|William Finch|6|Students feel safe at Wm. Finch Charter School.  Many students & families appreciate that they can move ahead in the curriculum and make up lost credits from elsewhere.  However, some students lack the dedication and motivation to do their work once they are away from the classroom instructions. The i-Ready Assessment and Curriculum program has been implemented for grade level purposes.  This provides increased specialized instruction at their own level.  Some student have gone up two grade levels in one year by focusing on these strategies.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
19651360000000|William S. Hart Union High|6|During the third week of May 2019, 8th and 10th grade students took a voluntary survey in their history classes.  The 36 question, online anonymous survey included questions attempting to assess the students’ perception of their safety on campus and their connectedness to school.    * 3,087 8th grade students completed the survey, which is 88% of the 8th grade class * 2,880 10th grade students completed the survey, which is 73% of the 10th grade class  The following questions from the survey, with the percentage of affirmative responses, were selected as they address the student perceptions that we were asked to measure.                                                                                 Student Perception of School Safety                                                                 8th Grade     10th Grade  * I feel safe at my school                                                 82%   84% * If I did not feel safe at my school I would tell an adult                             62%   65% * At my school, there is a teacher or other adult who cares                            84%   83%    about me * I feel close to at least one adult on at my school                                     70%   70% * If a student tells an adult on campus that someone is                               87%    84%    bullying, the adult will do something to help                                                                        Student Perception of Their Connectedness to School                                                                 8th Grade           10th Grade  * I feel welcome at this school                                                82%         84% * I feel close to other students at this school                                      84%         80% * I am happy to be at this school                                               76%         75%   The results show that the majority of students who completed the survey feel safe and connected to their school.  However a much lower percentage of these same students replied affirmatively that if they did not feel safe at school they would tell an adult or that they were close to at least one adult,on campus.  These lower percentages would indicate that many students, even though they feel safe and connected to their schools, are not building healthy relationships with the adults on their campuses.     The results of this survey were broken out by school sites and shared with principals shortly after the survey concluded.  Principals were directed to review the information with their leadership teams over the summer and choose an area of focus to include in their School Goals and in their School Safety Plan for the 2019-20 school year.  Principals shared the information with their staff when they returned in the fall and many are now working on the ares of focus that they gleaned from the survey results.  District-wide conversations on these topics will be ongoing.|2019-10-16||Met|2019
06616220000000|Williams Unified|6|The measure to assess school climate was conducted through the California Healthy Kids (CHKS) Survey. The survey asked questions regarding the school environment and is administered every other year focusing on the topics of school safety and connectedness. The CHKS provides a valid measure of student perceptions of school safety and connectedness in grades 5, 7, 9, & 11. The key learnings from the CHKS survey results indicate that there are that around 80% of our students feel safe in our schools. That is a strength. Nevertheless, a quarter of our students reported they have felt bullied. This is a challenge. Another strength was that the survey indicated 84% of our students feeling that teachers responded to bullying reports; however, our student survey indicated that only about 35% of students were responsive to bulling acts. Which becomes another challenge. An action to address and work on reducing bullying, was to have a presenter come and present to students what bullying is, how it affects students and what one can do to prevent bullying from occurring. This also included a parent training on bullying so parents can understand the definition of bullying. One of our teachers actually started an “Anti-Bullying” club to work with students to prevent bullying on their campus. In addition, we started a character education program districtwide that focuses on teaching and embedding Lifeskills and Lifelong Guidelines like caring, friendship, trustworthiness, no put-downs and active listening. Another area for growth from the survey was that students felt that there was low parent involvement overall (20%) with only 37% of parents checking homework. This coming year we will work on developing some actions to increase parent engagement and part of that will be to have parents check homework. Finally, there seems to be about 80% of students who feel strong about staff student relations; however, only 20% feel that we do have caring adults. These are areas we will be looking into and identifying ways on how to address and improve some of the perceptions we feel need improvement, like having our students feel that we truly care. For more results, please see the full CHKS Healthy Kids Survey posted on our district website.|2019-10-17|Feel free to visit our website to look at the CHKS Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) for more School Climate Information.|Met|2019
23656232330363|Willits Charter|6|Finding 1:  WCS students feel safe, successful, valued, and connected to the community.  Evidence:  74% of students strongly agree/agree with the statement “I like going to Willits Charter School”  (compared to 71% in 2017-2018 and 63% in 2016-2017).  Less than 3% of students disagree (no students strongly disagree) that “WCS is a safe place to go to school” (compared to 9% in 2017-2018 and 9% in 2016-2017). 65% of students strongly agree/agree with the statements  “I am happy with how I am doing in school” and “WCS has people on staff that I can turn to if I need to talk to someone.”  Only 9% of students disagree/strongly disagree with the statement “I have good friends at Willits Charter School.”  Less than 2% of students strongly disagree that “WCS provides ways for me to be involved in community” (no students disagree with this statement).    Finding 2:  WCS students feel valued and supported by teachers and staff.  Evidence:  Less than 3% of students disagree (no students strongly disagree) that “The teachers and staff at WCS care about my education” (compared to 15% in 2017-2018 and 17% in 2016-2017).  Furthermore, 63% of students agree/strongly agree that “Teachers and staff care about me as a person” (compared to 53% in 2017-2018 and 48% in 2016-2017).  Over 60% agree or strongly agree that “Teachers and staff treat students fairly and with respect.”  Finding 3:  WCS students perceive their education as relevant to future college and career plans.  Only 9% of students disagree/strongly disagree that what they learn at WCS is preparing them for college and a career (compared to 15% in 2017-2018). Seventy-three percent strongly agree or agree that WCS helps them explore ideas about college and possible careers (compared to 36% in 2017-2018).  Finding 4:  WCS students have a favorable opinion of the school’s handling of student behavior.  82% of students report that “Teachers and staff at WCS take problems with drugs and alcohol seriously (55% Strongly Agree & 26% Agree).  Over 66% of students agree/strongly agree that “WCS has fair and clear consequences for breaking rules” (compared to 58% in 2017-2018 and 35% in 2016-2017).  Less than 7% of students disagree that “WCS has a clean and orderly environment” (no students strongly disagree with this statement).    Implications and Analysis of Findings: School climate has been an area of active focus over the past three years as WCS has implemented the MTSS model. Positive behavioral supports and an emphasis on relationship building continues to positively impact school climate.  WCS will continue to participate in and expand MTSS.  College and career exploration in middle school is a possible area for growth.|2019-11-05|WCS administers an annual student survey to all students in grades 6-12.  The survey was designed in conjunction with the Western Association of Schools and College's (WASC) cycle of continuous improvement.  Results are compiled and reported to the governing board and shared with stakeholders.|Met|2019
23656230125658|Willits Elementary Charter|6|Willits Elementary Charter School will conduct a survey of students in grade 2 to 5 to determine the school climate and to address issues that are of concern to students. Currently, students on the School Student Council are designing the survey, which will include questions from California Healthy Kids Survey as well as questions that the students themselves want to ask. The results will be compiled and students as well as teachers and parents will analyze the results and formulate approaches to dealing with issues that arise.|2019-11-05|Previous surveys indicate that students feel safe and valued at Willits Elementary Charter School. Students and parents appreciate the small climate, personalized support and responsiveness of the staff to students. This year's survey will continue to investigate student perceptions of the school climate and address any issues that arise.|Met|2019
23656230000000|Willits Unified|6||||Not Met|2019
21654746118491|Willow Creek Academy Charter|6|Willow Creek Academy administers a Middle School Climate Survey to students in grades 6-8 annually. Survey results indicate students feel the campus is a positive, inclusive climate for learning. Key (Spring 2019) Middle School Climate Survey are as follows: When I am at school, I feel I am safe. (80% All the time or Most of the time) When I am at school, I feel like I belong. (68% All the time or Most of the time) Other students are friendly. (78% All the time or Most of the time) Ongoing challenges include fostering a sense of community among diverse student groups and addressing misconduct effectively to promote a positive learning environment. Climate Survey Data continues to provide direction for our LCAP review process and has directly influenced our decision to allocate significant resources toward our restorative practices and Responsive Classroom programs. While we are encouraged by the results of actions implemented, we recognize the importance of continuously monitoring multiple sources of data, including our disaggregated suspension data and survey data, to ensure we are meeting benchmarks toward our school climate goals.|2019-10-21||Met|2019
47704900000000|Willow Creek Elementary|6|Willow Creek annually measures its progress in school climate by administering the Healthy Kid's Survey to 7th grade students and to parents.  Willow Creek then reports the results to its local governing board at a regularly scheduled meeting and reports to stakeholders and the public through parent meetings, school communique and the Dashboard.|2019-10-17||Met|2019
35675790000000|Willow Grove Union Elementary|6||||Not Met|2019
11626610000000|Willows Unified|6|According to the results of the California Healthy Kids Survey 2017 and the LCAP Survey 2018-2019, students generally perceive school as a very safe or safe place (70% at the elementary school level; 64% at the intermediate school level; and 54% at the high school level). Only 4% of the students in WUSD experienced violence and victimization, while 1% of student behavior infractions were related to weapon possession on school property. Over 60% of WUSD students feel connected to teachers and schools. An area of growth, according to the Student LCAP Surveys is related to food services. Students would like to see better food served during the day. Additionally, students would like more electives at the secondary level. Willows Unified School District is currently working on improving the meals served in our district as we qualify for Community Eligibility Provision (CEP). Contingent upon funding and available personnel, Willows Unified School District will investigate opportunities to provide more electives at the secondary level.   The district has hired at least one full time counselor at every school site to, among other things, help increase parent and students’ knowledge and skills in career planning; understand graduation requirements and  preparation for college and career; and to increase awareness of intervention strategies and support programs within the community to help prepare students in reaching their optimal potential. In addition, Willows Intermediate School works with University of California, Davis, to employ a full time advisor to aide and support students in preparation for academic studies after school. This advisor has begun working with the middle school and will continue to work with the same cohort group until graduation. This year, the district will also have an assigned School Resource Officer who will work closely with administrators in an effort to create a safer environment for both students and staff.  The district also works with the School Attendance Review Board (SARB), the Community Health Department, and the Glenn County Office of Education to assist in student interventions, parent education, and staff professional development. The District has seen a decline in suspension rates.   The 2019-2020 California Healthy Kids Survey results won’t be available until December 2019.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
49710190000000|Wilmar Union Elementary|6|Results from the 2019 Wilson School Healthy Student Survey are as follows: 96% of students report that they are proud to attend Wilson School. 91% of students report that they have a caring relationship with at least one adult at school. 99% of students report that they feel very safe in their classrooms, while 88% report feeling very safe on the playgrounds 82% of students report that their teachers and other adults have high expectations for them  Students' sense of safety and satisfaction with school and staff are very high. However, students feel less safe on the playgrounds than they do in the classrooms. This is an area of growth for Wilson. In response to the survey results, Wilson will continue to implement our social emotional curriculum in classrooms and during school wide assemblies. Yard supervisors have been trained in the use of Toolbox Tools for self-regulation. Success will be measured by comparing year-to-year results of the Wilson School Healthy Student Survey.|2019-10-10||Met|2019
19651510000000|Wilsona Elementary|6|The 2017-2018 Healthy Kids Survey administered to 5th and 7th graders revealed that students feel safe at school (65%). There was a decrease in student connectedness (29%). There was  reduction of hopelessness (22%). The LEA is focusing on providing professional development to staff on building relationships with students. The LEA has increased the number of  Social Emotional Learning support staff.|2019-11-21||Met|2019
49753580000000|Windsor Unified|6|DATA: On the 2018/19 LCAP survey, 80% of 5th-12th grade student respondents, and on the 2017/18 LCAP survey, 81% of 5th-12th student respondents indicated they agreed or strongly agreed that their school is providing a safe and positive learning environment. On the 2018/19 LCAP survey, 84% of parent and staff respondents and in 2017/18 87.5% of parent and staff respondents agreed or strongly agreed that that the school motivates students to learn, while only 67% in 2018/19 and in 2017/18 73% of 5th- 12th grade student respondents agreed or strongly agreed.  MEANING: Additional work and exploration around finding more motivational ways in which to engage students in their learning and therefore, their connectedness to school is an area of need. USE: The District is actively exploring ways in which to strengthen adult:student relationships as well as implement more meaningful and important instructional strategies such as Project Based Learning, to assist with helping students feel more motivated to learn.|2019-10-15||Met|2019
51714566053334|Winship Community|6|Our school climate survey results guide our family engagement initiatives.  In the most recent survey, most parents Agreed or Strongly Agreed that they felt connected to school; students were excited about learning and felt connected to their teacher.  Students shared that they feel connected to our school and enjoy educational field trips, extra-curricular activities, and other social events such as school dances.  Students also indicate they can quickly receive assistance from teachers through a variety of platforms including virtual online meetings.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
51714560000000|Winship-Robbins|6|A local climate survey was given to students in grades second through eighth grades that provided a valid measure of school safety and connectedness. The results of this survey were shared at the April 10 and May 2, 2019.  Winship-Robbins ESD Board Meetings along with the September 17, 2019 Site Council and DELAC meetings. Findings from this survey indicated that 94% of the staff and students felt safe at school. When the Climate survey was analyzed for student relationships and learning practices, it was determined that 69% of the students felt they were part of the school family and had close friends to share experiences with at school. Both these results indicated that more efforts needed to be made to ensure student connectedness to their learning goals and one another. To facilitate these needs, the LEA empowered the Student Council with a retreat to create goals for student participation to promote student connectedness and involvement. With the assistance of the Student Council, student events were provided monthly to promote student relationships. These monthly events were referred to as College Team Days. College Teams were multi-grade teams that each represented a California College or University. The students work together in College Teams to complete creative activities, participate in competitive games and encourage literacy throughout the grades. College Teams promote the united relationships our students were seeking.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
57727020000000|Winters Joint Unified|6|The Winters Joint Unified School District annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The results of the survey from the 2018-2019 school are as follows: > School Connectedness: Grade 5 = 71%; Grade 7 = 56%; Grade 9 = 50%; Grade 11 = 47%; Alternative Education = 55% > School Safety: Grade 5 = 81%; Grade 7 =57%; Grade 9 = 60%; Grade 11 = 61%; Alternative Education = 58%   Perceptions of School Connectedness and School Safety are not as high as we would like to see throughout the District. To address the transition between school sites and perceptions of school connectedness, the District has implemented a number of new student mentoring programs, including Link Crew at Winters High School. Additionally, Goal 3 of the LCAP identifies specific action items to increase the social-emotional well-being of students by strengthening co-curricular and extracurricular activities.  A counselor for each site is in place to support the social/ emotional needs of our students|2019-10-17||Met|2019
24658700000000|Winton|6|Winton School District 5th graders and 7th graders were administered the California Healthy Kids Survey in the Spring of 2018. The 5th grade students were administered the Elementary Core Module while the 7th grade students were administered the Secondary Core Module.  There was a high level to moderate level of school connectedness for both the 5th graders and 7th graders. 98% of the 5th graders who took the survey scored high and moderate on the school connectedness questions. 92% of the 7th graders who took the survey scored high and moderate on the school connectedness questions.  Both the questions/statements asked were if the students were close to people at school, happy to be at school, feel like a part of this school, treated fairly by teachers at school, and feel safe at school. From the analysis of each of the 4 questions/statements, the 5th graders had the lowest percentage (yes, all of the time and yes, most of the time combined) when asked do you feel close to people at school. However, the 7th graders scored the highest percentage (strongly agree and agree combined) when asked how strongly they feel close to people at this school. In addition, of the 5 questions asked, both 5th and 7th graders had the second highest percentage rating of being ‘happy to be at school’. Overall, the student connectedness questions reveal that the students are happy to be at school and want to be a part of the school.  In terms of students’ perception of safety at school, when the 7th graders were asked, “How safe do you feel when you are at school?”, 59% of the 7th graders who took the survey perceived the school as very safe or safe, 30% felt neither safe nor unsafe, and only 11% felt unsafe and very unsafe. When the 5th graders were asked, “Do you feel safe at school”, 82% of the 5th graders who took the survey indicated that they feel safe most and all of the time and 2% never feeling safe.  Two areas of concern are raised when looking at this data. The process of relationship building and the students’ perception of student safety differ between the two grade span. Even though there has been an increase by 4% from the 2015-16 data of 7th graders perceiving the school as very safe or safe and a constant percentage for 5th graders feeling safe most and all of the time, the district intends to engage students’ perception of what safety means to them and what safety looks like. It is the intent that our school counselors and school resource officer will have classroom discussions/presentations on what school/student safety is.|2019-10-14|The California Healthy Kids Survey is administered every other year.  The California Healthy Kids Survey was not administered during the 2018-2019 school year, but it will be administered in the Spring during the 2019-20 school year.|Met|2019
19768690000000|Wiseburn Unified|6|Annual student survey indicators provide data as related to school climate. In 2018-19 the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) results indicate 82% of 5th-grade students marked high or moderate in the area of meaningful participation (5% increase from 2017-18). In addition, 2018-19 CHKS results indicate 97% of 7th-grade students marked high or moderate in the area of school connectedness (1% increase from 2017-18). Both indicators reflect increases in student sense of belonging at their schools. Further, the district 2018 suspension rate as identified on the California Dashboard Suspension Status Indicator for All Students is .5%, far below the state average. Continued focus on positive behavior intervention support programs, parent involvement, and a comprehensive counseling support program at all sites will continue to promote a safe and positive school climate for students and staff.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
19647330135632|WISH Academy High|6|WISH annually administers the California Healthy Kids Survey each spring to parents, students, and faculty members to gauge satisfaction levels, connectedness, wellness, and resiliency, allowing WISH to solicit crucial feedback for our operations. This year we are also administering the Core-SEL assessment to our Academy Scholars during our first semester to provide a point of reference for growth for the year.   In addition, each week an Owl Proud survey is sent to the entire community enabling all stakeholders to voice comments, suggestions, and opinions at any point throughout the year.  These are internal, targeted surveys directed to our secondary students, staff, and parents.  The data from these surveys indicate that WISH students feel like their curriculum is engaging and meaningful, the teachers are invested in them, and they feel free from bullying. Students also indicated that they want more opportunities for student choice and voice to be heard.  Advisory – All Academy students participate in advisory each day.  This course offers opportunities for students to share their voices with a dedicated adult champion available to support their socio-emotional needs.  WISH has also infused more social and emotional supports across all grades, including the Yale Ruler program.  WISH Educators participated in the Yale training to ensure the full understanding and effective implementation of the program, providing parents with the language and tools of the program to provide consistency at home.    WISH Academy has implemented the LINK Crew this year - a  peer-mentoring program to aid in freshmen during that critical transition year into highschool. LINK is built on the belief that students can be positive role models and help their peers succeed both academically, and on a social-emotional level.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
19647330135921|WISH Community|6|WISH annually surveys students, staff, and parents to gauge satisfaction levels, connectedness, wellness, and resiliency, allowing WISH to solicit crucial feedback for our operations. WISH administers the California Healthy Kids Survey to parents, students in grades 3 – 8 and faculty members. In addition, each week an Owl Proud survey is sent to the entire community enabling all stakeholders to voice comments, suggestions, and opinions at any point throughout the year. The data from these surveys indicate that WISH students feel like their curriculum is engaging and meaningful, the teachers are invested in them, and they feel free from bullying. Students also indicated that they want more opportunities for student choice and voice to be heard.  Our Middle School students (grades 6 - 8) complete a social-emotional survey check every 5 weeks as part of our Pride Day activities.  This survey alternates between our OWL Proud survey and the Core-SEL survey imbedded in our Schools SIS system.  Advisory & Community Circle – All students in grades 6-8 participate in advisory each day, while students in grades TK-5 start the day with Community Circle. Both programs offer opportunities for students to share their voices with a dedicated adult champion available to support their socio-emotional needs.  WISH has also infused more social and emotional supports across all grades, including the Yale Ruler program.  WISH Educators participated in the Yale training to ensure the full understanding and effective implementation of the program, providing parents with the language and tools of the program to provide consistency at home.  WISH parents meet in grade-level groups regularly to share experiences and improve the practice in school and at home.    WISH also employs the WEB (Where Everybody Belongs) program to aid in the transition to middle school. WEB is built on the belief that students can be positive role models and help their peers succeed.  8th Grade scholars attend summer training sessions where they learn to mentor incoming middle schoolers, to ensure the incoming 6th-grade students acclimate to the rigors of the middle school experience and feel welcome and comfortable as they face new academic challenges.|2019-11-14||Met|2019
15101570119669|Wonderful College Prep Academy|6|Wonderful College Prep Academy provided a locally produced series of climate surveys (given every 2 years) in the 2017-2018 school year that were utilized to provide feedback for the school in the strategic planning process. At the Academy, there were surveys given to families and students in order to review multiple perspectives on school climate.  Surveys were taken anonymously to provide authentic results, some identifying information was included (grade level of student; students and parents took different surveys).  Families at the Academy reported that they are most satisfied with WCPA's effectiveness in preparing students for college and career and providing instructional materials. These categories had a grand mean of 3.5 or higher on a 4 point scale.  Families cited the following as growth areas: sharing academic progress to support my child and child has opportunities to share opinions. Both had a grand mean of around 3.2 on a 4 point scale.  At the time of the survey, WCPA was serving grades K-1 and 6-12. Students cited the following as areas of strength: My teacher helps me if I need it, I feel safe at school and students at my school always try their best - all with 80% or greater of students rating "agree" or "strongly agree".  For action steps, WCPA has sought to increase more opportunities for student voice, to increase efforts with parent engagement and to increase student access to technology. In support of these efforts, the Academy took the following actions:  1. Hired a Middle School and High School Principal to focus on academics and culture at the middle school  2. Hired a Director of Student Supports to ensure there are schoolwide interventions;  3. Hired a Family and Community Engagement manager to increase parent engagement efforts  4. Revised curricular materials to ensure students could continue to have access to personalized learning materials and enough technology to support 1:1 through the use of Chromebooks and iPads.  5. Additionally, there have been opportunities for student leadership through the use of advisory clubs at the high school and leadership groups at the middle school.  The Academy will be surveying students during the 2019-2020 to obtain updated student climate information.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
15101570135467|Wonderful College Prep Academy - Lost Hills|6|Wonderful College Prep Academy Lost Hills provided a locally produced series of climate surveys in the 2017-2018 school year that were utilized to provide feedback for the school in the strategic planning process. At Lost Hills, there were surveys given to families and students in order to review multiple perspectives on school climate.  Surveys were taken anonymously to provide authentic results, some identifying information was included (grade level of student; students and parents took different surveys).  Families at Lost Hills reported that they are most satisfied with WCPA's effectiveness in engaging and motivating students; preparing students for college and career; and personalizing learning by knowing students well and supporting their learning. All of these categories had a grand mean of 3.7 or higher on a 4 point scale.  Families cited the following as growth areas: child's experience with technology and child has opportunities to share opinions. Both had a grand mean of less than 3.5 on a 4 point scale.  At the time of the survey, WCPA Lost Hills was only serving grades K-2. Students cited the following as areas of strength: I have many different types of friends, I feel safe at school and students at my school are nice to each other - all with 80% or greater of students rating "agree" or "strongly agree".  Last year, we administered the same survey for the 2018-19 school year, and we maintained strong levels of parent satisfaction around our school climate and academic program.    For action steps, WCPA Lost Hills has sought to increase more opportunities for student voice, to increase efforts with parent engagement and to increase student access to technology. In support of these efforts, the Academy applied for funding via the LCAP process to  1.  Hire a full-time director of student services  2.  Hire a principal to focus on academics and culture  3.  Revised curricular materials to ensure students could continue to have access to personalized learning materials and enough technology to support 1:1 through the use of Chromebooks.  4.  Additionally, there have been opportunities for student leadership through the use of leadership groups at the middle school.  5.  We invested in a parent communication tool to facilitate stronger relationships and correspondence between parents and staff.    The Academy will be surveying students during the 2019-2020 to obtain updated student climate information.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
19647336020036|Woodlake Elementary Community Charter|6|Woodlake Elementary Community Charter administered the 2018-19 School Experience Survey to 4th-5th grade students. 90% of the4th-5th grade students completed the survey. The following are the questions that pertain to school climate and the % of students indicating All of the Time and Most of the Time are noted next to the question.  Are you happy to be at this school? 86% Do you feel like you are part of this school? 82%  Do you feel accepted for who you are at this school? 80% Do you feel safe at this school? 85%  Do adults at this school treat students with respect? 77%|2019-10-17||Met|2019
54767940000000|Woodlake Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in the spring of 2018 to students in grades 5, 7, 9, and 11. The Local Control and Accountability Plan has tracked the students' perceptions on three critical indicators: 1. I feel safe at school (66% agree or strongly agree); 2. Teachers and other adults at school care about you (80.8% agree or strongly agree); 3. I feel like I am part of the school (58% agree or strongly agree). The results indicate that while most students indicate that adults care about them, there is more work to do in this area. The responses to I feel safe at school are concerning to the district. In the light of national events, we understand our students’ concerns. Additionally, the students’ responses to I feel connected to school requires attention. As part of the WASC accreditation process in 2018-19, students in grades 9-12 at the comprehensive high school conducted a follow-up survey which mirrored many of the Healthy Kids Survey results: 81.4% of students felts safe at school (strongly agree or agree), In response to student safety, the district launched A.L.I.C.E. (Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter, Evacuate) protocol training. Each adult in the district was trained online in 2017-18, and will receive an online refresher in 2019-20 along with in-person training and a drill component. A district safety committee, which includes the local police agency, meets monthly to ensure ongoing assessment and progress on student safety.  In addition, the district will continue to work to improve school climate especially in creating an atmosphere that promotes respect through Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) in grades K-8 and Save Our Students (SOS) in grades 7-12 which focus on creating positive social and emotional outcomes and school connectedness for all our students. To support student success and social-emotional well-being, 3 district social workers are provided by the LCAP, one for each grade span (K-5, 6-8, and 9-12).|2019-11-13||Met|2019
19647336020044|Woodland Hills Elementary Charter For Enriched Studies|6|According to the 2018/2019 School Experience Survey, overall, 83% of students say they have not been bullied at school.  However, 31% of students claim they have had mean rumors or lies spread about them.  Overall, 66% of students know the expectations for behavior at school.  Currently WHECES is promoting Positive Behavior Intervention Support. The PBIS committee has set clear behavior expectations throughout the school, have taught these expectations to all staff members, and all students in all grade levels.  81% of the students in grades 3-5 feel happy to be at school. 82% of the students claim that the teachers treat them with respect. 87% feel safe at school.|2019-10-30|WHECES has implemented school wide expectations throughout the campus that were written by our Positive Behavior Intervention Support Committee. WHECES has a short daily assembly where students say our school pledge, Be safe, respectful, responsible and kind, and where students are reminded about expectations for the day. We also have two student of the month assemblies and one community assembly where parents are invited to attend.|Met|2019
57727100000000|Woodland Joint Unified|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered in February 2019, to students who are in 5th, 7th, 9th, and 11th grade. Response rates are as follows: 51% in 5th grade, 81% in 7th grade, 88% in 9th grade, 74% in 11th grade, and 100% in 11th grade at CCHS. Key measures for WJUSD on the CHKS are the sense of school connectedness, reported caring adult relationships, meaningful participation, sense of safety, and feeling chronically sad or hopeless. Among all race/ethnic groups, African American students have the lowest rates of school connectedness, and the among the highest rates of feeling chronically sad or hopeless.  For the meaningful participation question, elementary schools have the highest rate at 39%, while middle schools fare better than high schools, but rates are still low, at 30% or less of students reporting high levels of meaningful participation. In terms of student safety, 74% of elementary students report feeling safe at school, 64% of middle school students, and between 47% and 69% of high school students perceive their school as safe or very safe. On the question of feeling chronically sad or hopeless, 14% of 5th graders reported, but more than 30% of secondary students reported feeling so sad or hopeless for two weeks or more that they stopped doing usual activities. In order to learn more about this data, the district engaged in 42 student focus groups at schools throughout the district in the spring of 2019. Using the themes from the CHKS as a starting point, students were asked why students say that they don't feel a part of their school, why few students say they do interesting activities at school, and why students say they never do things that make a difference. Students were asked what the district could do better in these areas.  Common themes were: (1) increasing opportunities for student voice and choice; (2) promoting friendships among students; (3) increasing activities and clubs for student engagement; and (4) needing to build relationships between adults and students.  There were also many bullying and harassment issues discussed, especially on the playground, and students suggested that more structured activities would help students have more positive interactions with other students. Some students report feeling lonely and left out, and needing encouragement from adults to make friendships with other students. Since positive relationships and social connections are important to overall well-being, these observations are consistent with the data from the Healthy Kids Survey, which shows that more than 30% of students surveyed have felt chronically sad or hopeless in the last 12 months. The district's conclusions about the data and the focus groups point to a need for a social-emotional curriculum, which the district does not currently have. The district is beginning to research SEL programs, with some pilots happening at several schools.|2019-05-23||Met|2019
49709530105866|Woodland Star Charter|6||||Not Met|2019
41690880000000|Woodside Elementary|6|From last year's survey, WESD found that over 95% of parents are satisfied with WES's performance in providing a well-rounded education. Overall, our parents are satisfied with the level of communication with teachers and feel informed of their child's progress. However, our survey also indicated that only 52% of parents are satisfied with the class website as a tool for teachers to communicate with parents. Furthermore the survey showed that the district can improve their communication regarding the design program and projects as well as the district can improve their current practice in addressing negative student behaviors during recess. This year, the design committee will use online communication and class newsletters to keep our parents up-to-date on what students are creating on campus. The design committee will continue to use an assessment rubric for design skills and experiences and will communicate with parents to keep all stakeholders informed.|2019-10-22||Met|2019
54722980000000|Woodville Union Elementary|6|Overall District School Climate: In 2016/2017 a school climate survey was administered to the student body - a total of 195 responses from grades 3-8 indicated: 78.2% of student reported having a high level of connectedness at school, 79.8% of students reported that staff support them when they have academic or personal problems, 75% of students reported they could use additional support (interventions) in English Language Arts and Math, 55% of students reported that they perceived school as being safe, clean, and in good condition, 50% of students reported a high level of academic motivation, and 80% of students reported a need for more after school enrichment activities.  In 2018-2019 - Woodville USD will be collaborated with COE to administer the Healthy Kid Survey reporting a total of 95 students were targeted and 70 responded in grades 5 and 7 indicated:   SUPPORT and ENGAGEMENT: 73% of student reported having a high level of connectedness at school, 73% of students reported that they feel school is a caring environment, 81% of students reported that staff have high expectations of them and support them when they have academic or personal problems, 48% of students reported meaningful participation, 78% of students reported that they perceived school as being safe, clean, and in good condition.   LOW VIOLENCE: 71% of students reported a Low Violence Prepetration, 69% reported Low Violence Victimization.   SCHOOL CLIMATE: 81% of students reported the school is Fair, 81% of students reported there's rule clarity, 77% of students reported support for social and emotional learning, 78% of students reported anti-bullying climate, 88% of students reported positive behavior, 94% students reported high expectations from the home, and 87% of students reported parents involvement in the schooling.|2019-04-08||Met|2019
36678760126714|Woodward Leadership Academy|6||||Not Met For Two or More Years|2019
49710356052377|Wright Charter|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is currently being administered, and 2019 data will be available for the next Dashboard update. The last California Healthy Kids Survey was administered during the 2017-2018 school year. It was administered to all 5th grade students, and an accompanying staff survey on school climate was given to all teachers in the district. According to the 2017-18 California Healthy Kids Survey, 36% of the 5th grade students reported feeling safe at school all of the time, which was a significant decline from 50% the last time it was administered in 2016. 35% reported feeling safe most of the time, which was a small increase from 2016. The results of the California Healthy Kids Survey are summarized and shared with staff and the School Site Councils, and a report is presented at a regularly-scheduled district Board meeting. In response to the results, the LEA took actions to improve feelings of emotional and physical safety. School counselors worked with students on relationship building and problem solving. Restorative practices were implemented, as well as the Toolbox social-emotional learning curriculum. Staff received training on how to respond to students so that they feel heard. Additionally, new fences were installed to keep strangers off campuses, and emergency protocols were updated.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
49710350000000|Wright Elementary|6|The California Healthy Kids Survey is currently being administered, and 2019 data will be available for the next Dashboard update. The last California Healthy Kids Survey was administered during the 2017-2018 school year. It was administered to all 5th grade students, and an accompanying staff survey on school climate was given to all teachers in the district. According to the 2017-18 California Healthy Kids Survey, 36% of the 5th grade students reported feeling safe at school all of the time, which was a significant decline from 50% the last time it was administered in 2016. 35% reported feeling safe most of the time, which was a small increase from 2016. The results of the California Healthy Kids Survey are summarized and shared with staff and the School Site Councils, and a report is presented at a regularly-scheduled district Board meeting. In response to the results, the LEA took actions to improve feelings of emotional and physical safety. School counselors worked with students on relationship building and problem solving. Restorative practices were implemented, as well as the Toolbox social-emotional learning curriculum. Staff received training on how to respond to students so that they feel heard. Additionally, new fences were installed to keep strangers off campuses, and emergency protocols were updated.|2019-10-31||Met|2019
34674390121665|Yav Pem Suab Academy - Preparing for the Future Charter|6|This summary captures the findings from the end-of-the-year scholar climate survey results.  The top three strongly agree and agree survey questions are: 1. I respect my teacher. (96%) 2. My teacher thinks I can do well in class and in school. (90%) 3. My teacher encourages all scholars to participate, not just those who raised their hands. (93%)  The top three strongly disagree and disagree survey questions are: 1. Scholars at my school fight a lot. (60%) 2. Scholars in my class behave the way my teacher wants them to. (49%) 3. The noise caused by other scholars in the classroom disrupts my learning. (28%)  Growth: There is a need to strengthen the relationship and discipline process between students and classroom teachers.    Challenges & Barriers: There is a need for teachers and adults to understand the students’ home environment, background, culture, and learning styles. This may be the effect of misaligned understanding of disciplined life process.   To improve in this area, the LEA will refine its “cultural competency training” to target this need and offer training/guidance of the “Disciplined Life” process.  Currently, the YPSA Cultural Competency Program increases staff capacity to understand and implement culturally responsive curriculum and related instruction in the classroom to not only improve stakeholder relationships, communication and cooperation; but also to improve the academic, personal and social success of all students.   Culture is central to learning. It plays a role not only in communicating and receiving information, but also in shaping the thinking process of groups and individuals. A pedagogy that acknowledges, responds to, and celebrates fundamental cultures offers full, equitable access to education for students from all cultures.  The seven tenets of culturally responsive pedagogy are the following:  1. It acknowledges the legitimacy of one’s cultural heritage that shapes dispositions and attitudes; 2. It builds bridges of meaningfulness between home and school; 3. It uses a wide variety of instructional strategies that are connected to learning styles; 4. It incorporates multicultural information, books and other educational resources; 5. It promotes the idea of the classroom family and all students are in it together; 6. It teaches students that they can be successful and that they are appreciated by educators who have high expectations of them; and 7. It develops the social consciousness of students to better handle the world of prejudice and racism.|2019-10-14|In addition, YPSA’s, Disciplined Life Process was approved by a panel of parents, teachers, consultants, etc. to support behavior and guide restorative structures. It works through the three levels below.   Level I- Teacher Responsibility: When infraction is inside the classroom and scholar chooses NOT to, including but not limited to:Follow instructions, respect peers and other adults, refuse to work, cheat, vulgar language, hit/kick/push/punch/, allow teacher to teach and scholar to learn.  Level II- Admin. Responsibility: When the infraction is unresolved, continues and/or violates 48900 a-r, 48915 c. Scholar arrives with blue behavioral referral form (BRF) filled out, and gathering of information has started.  Level III- Everyone Responsibility: When in infraction is outside of classroom and scholars choose NOT to, including but not limited to: Follow instructions, respect peers and other adults, refuse to work, cheat, use vulgar language, hit/kick/push/punch/, theft, fight, assault, absolute defiance, threaten, bully, use profanity and/or aggressive behavior and/or refuse to follow staff directions, etc.|Met|2019
57105790137422|Yolo County Career Academy|6||||Not Met|2019
57105790000000|Yolo County Office of Education|6|Alternative Education utilized the California Healthy Kids Survey (CHKS) Core Module, School Environment Scales and School Connectedness, Parent Involvement, and Academic Motivation Scales for the 2018-2019 LCAP. The CHKS, which was developed by the California Department of Education and WestEd, is a reliable and valid instrument. The survey results follow:  School Environment Scales: Students responded to statements such as: At my school there is a teacher or some other adult who tells me I do a good job, who always wants me to do my best, and believes I will be a success. Total school supports: moderate (57%) and high (26%) Caring adults in school: moderate (58%) and high (28%) High expectations-adult in school: moderate (47%) and high (41%) Meaningful participation at school: moderate (46%) and high (11%) School Connectedness, Parent Involvement, and Academic Motivation Scales: Students responded to statements such as: I feel close to people at this school, I feel like I am a part of this school, and I am happy to be at this school. School connectedness: moderate (37%) and high (48%) Academic motivation: moderate (38%) and high (26%) Parent involvement in school: moderate (49%) and high (26%). These data contrast with last year’s data and demonstrates a high degree of variability which is to be expected with a high degree of variability in the student population. Anecdotal data showed that another challenge is meaningful student participation in this process as a substantive number expressed their reservation at answering the survey questions honestly if at all. With a small sample size, this calls into question the validity of the responses. Even so, we are seeing better than expected results from our students especially in the social-emotional indicators and will continue to diversify our educational offerings through platforms like Edgenuity to ensure all students have access to high-quality education so that academic motivation is sustained.|2019-09-24|Data collected from California Healthy Kids Survey administered in May of 2019. Dan Jacobs school data were not included due to low sample size.|Met|2019
20764140000000|Yosemite Unified|6|The LEA administered a School Climate Survey during the week of October 8th through October 12th, 2018, to all students in 5th, 7th, and 9th grade.  The survey was voluntary, and 252 students participated in the official version of this survey. One limitation that challenges the validity of the survey data is that students attending Coarsegold Elementary School were provided with an incorrect link to take the survey. However, the survey taken by Coarsegold students was almost identical to the School Climate Survey that was completed by students at other sites. Eighty-five Coarsegold Elementary students participated in this version of the survey. The results from both surveys are combined and reported below. We believe that taking both data sets into consideration, the survey captured a valid measure of student perception of school safety and connectedness.    Analysis of the data indicate that students will continue to benefit from YUSD’s recently implemented Multi-Tiered Systems of Support, which include additional Intervention Specialists at each site to support students with academic and social, emotional, and behavioral needs and professional development related to social-emotional learning. Data also indicate that principals may need support in supervising students and effectively dealing with discipline, and that the district may want to investigate research-based school-wide bullying or harassment prevention programs. Additionally, data may indicate that teachers and principals may need to focus on communicating to students that they are listened to and cared about. Data will be disaggregated by site and shared with site teams to drive educational planning; data will be reviewed annually to check for progress.|2019-10-14|No more info to provide.|Met|2019
10625470135103|Yosemite Valley Charter|6|Annually, we administer a school climate survey to students and parents.  Responses indicate more than 80% of our students “agree or strongly agree” that they feel connected to our school, their teachers are engaging, and look forward to participating in school social events, enrichment activities, and educational field trips. Similarly, over 85% of parents “agree or strongly agree” they receive effective academic support and that their children feel safe/connected to the school and are receiving a good education.  Nonetheless, we experience challenges inherent in the nature of our online course offerings that are working to improve.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
20651850129015|Yosemite-Wawona Elementary Charter|6|The school climate survey was completed in the spring of 2018. Students, staff and parents were surveyed regarding school safety, conditions for learning, climate for learning, and available programs for students. All participants in the survey expressed a great level of satisfaction with the school and its climate for learning.|2019-11-12||Met|2019
14101400117994|YouthBuild Charter School of California|6|YCSC has now conducted LCAP surveys for the past 3 years that have included question around school climate and safety. This disaggregated survey data was fundamental in helping YCSC develop its 19/20 LCAP goals and actions.  The most noteworthy revision/actions that have been implemented in the 19/20 LCAP were the following:  Goal 1: Expand college and career access and measured by subsequent year growth on CCI (college and career indicator) Goal 1 Action 1 features the merging of college advising and tutoring into one role.  This carries forward the previously grant funded college advising into the 19/20 in conjunction with the school-wide tutoring program. Goal 1 Action 2 features an expansion of vocational training and collaboration with YBUSA and YB partners Goal 2: Improve support for staff through professional development for schoolwide success as measured by moving past 67% grad rate at the end of 19/20 to move out of CSC status. Goal 2 Action 1: Increase professional development opportunities (inclusive of CSI status and MTSS implementation)|2019-09-13|To gauge its current effort around school climate, in 2018/19 YCSC used the following Positive Transition measure to gauge its current efforts to both advocate for young people as individuals and to create the most supportive school climate possible.  The data was an attempt to analyze all 2018/19 transitions and code them as either positive, negative, or neutral.    2018/19 Transition Data  1) 1854 students out of 2,685 students that moved on from YCSC in 2018/19 (69.05% of students that moved on from YCSC) had a positive transition as demonstrated by their Exit Code on CALPADS.  2) 812 out of 2,685 students that moved on from YCSC in 2018/19 (30.24% of students that moved on from YCSC) had a negative transition as demonstrated by their Exit Code on CALPADS.  3) 19 out of 2,685 students that moved on from YCSC in 2018/19 (0.71% of students that moved on from YCSC) had a neutral transition as demonstrated by their Exit Code on CALPADS.  ------  For 2018/19, YCSC also developed "credits earned data" as another barometer. YCSC analyzed students who were enrolled for all or most of the 2018-19 school year and compared the credits they earned at YCSC with the credits they earned at the last school they attended (for all or most of the year). Based on the sites that were part of this study, students earned an average of 20.55 more credits per year at YCSC than they did at the previous school they attended, which is, in fact, 175% more credits earned per year at YCSC.|Met|2019
47705080000000|Yreka Union Elementary|6|1. DATA: The local climate survey results were obtained from the California Healthy Kids Survey for 2017-18 for seventh grade students. In addition, fifth grade students were provided the opportunity to participate in the survey for the 2017-2018 school year. From the current 2017-2018 data it can be determined that there is a general decrease in the perception of School Engagement and Supports as students move from 5th to 7th grades. The perception of the school as very safe or safe has also decreased from 5th to 7th grade although the 7th grade students experiencing any harassment or bullying has decreased from 65% in 2015-16 to 42% in 2017-18. 2.MEANING: It appears 5th grade teachers are more connected with students and are able to provide the additional supports students need. 7th grade students are more disconnected with the school environment as a whole and with their peers. Female students in both grade levels appear to be less connected and indicate they have been harassed more than male students. USE: The district has implemented a 7 period schedule in 2018-19 for 6th-8th grade students. This schedule allows students to participate in two electives and receive additional academic support during the school day. One goal of this schedule is to provide the opportunity for students to be more engaged and receive additional supports. An additional district goal is to reduce the number of students with chronic absenteeism. The rate for Jackson Street School in 2016-17 was 12.0% and 16.7% in 2017-18.  One self-contained class for middle school students has been established in the 2019-20 school year, to help those students that may feel disconnected.|2019-10-08|Suspension rates have decreased over the past two years and both sites have an "opportunity" room where students may compose themselves and take some time before re-entering the gen ed setting.  This support has helped keep students on site instead of sending them home from the school.|Met|2019
47705160000000|Yreka Union High|6||||Not Met|2019
01100170124172|Yu Ming Charter|6|Findings reported:  PARTICIPATION RATE: Yu Ming Charter School administered the Panorama Student Survey, a research-based student survey in order to measure various aspects of student experiences, including student perceptions of school safety and connectedness that also serves as a universal screener for social-emotional learning.   SURVEY FINDINGS:  2018-19: Participation Rate: 100% (52 respondents in Grade 5) Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness)- Panorama Survey • 62% feel close to people at school most/all of the time. • 73% are happy to be at this school most/all of the time. • 65% feel they are part of this school most/all of the time.  School Safety/Climate of Academic Learning – Panorama Survey • 56% feel safe at school most/all of the time. • 77% stated that other kids do not tease them about their body image. • 79% stated teachers give students opportunities to take part in classroom discussions or activities most/all of the time. • 75% stated that adults at the school encourage them to work hard in order to be successful most/all of the time.  2018-19: Participation Rate: 92% (83 respondents in Grades 6-8) Sense of Belonging (School Connectedness)- Panorama Survey • 66% feel close to people at school most/all of the time. • 49% are happy to be at this school most/all of the time. • 53% feel they are part of this school most/all of the time.  School Safety/Climate of Academic Learning – Panorama Survey • 60% feel safe at school most/all of the time. • 65% stated that other kids have not teased them about their body image or how they speak. • 48% stated that the adults at the school encourage them to work hard in order to be successful in college or the job they choose most/all of the time.  • 74% stated teachers give students opportunities to take part in classroom discussions or activities most/all of the time.  The School Directors and school staff will continue to work to improve student connectedness, school climate and maintain high student survey participation rates as outlined in the school’s LCAP.   The School Directors will research whether to continue with Panorama Survey or another evidence-based survey for the Spring 2020 student survey, in order to effectively gather data on student perceptions of school safety and connectedness as required by Priority 3 Local Indicators.|2019-10-24||Met|2019
51714645130125|Yuba City Charter|6|Every other year, YCCS conducts a school-wide survey of parents, teachers, and students.  The data overwhelmingly demonstrate 85 to 95% satisfaction from surveyed parents from all grade levels and subgroups with regard to safety, the educational process, educational content, opportunities for students, special education, student services, academic and social progress and performance, and school-wide practices and protocols.  YCCS continues to support and encourage parent participation in the PAC, board meetings, and school activities and events.  It remains a challenge to attract the numbers of parents we would like to see involved in the PAC.  We are constantly working to encourage parent participation and to elicit the information we need from parents through multiple methods of communication.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
51714640000000|Yuba City Unified|6|The Yuba City Unified School District (YCUSD) administered the Panorama Student Feedback Survey in the winter of 2019 to 2,655 students in Grades 5, 7, 9 and 11 to measure the perceptions of school safety and connectedness. YCUSD chose to implement the Panorama Student Feedback survey as it provides more detailed information regarding social-emotional learning, as well as, perceived school safety than the previously administered survey. A summary of the findings follow:  School Belonging - Percentage of students that feel like they belong at their school: Grades 3-5 = 91% & Grades 6-12 = 86%  School Climate – Percentage of students who report a positive social and learning climate at their school: Grades 3-5 = 85% & Grades 6-12 = 79%  School Engagement – Percentage of students who report being attentive and invested in their classes: Grades 3-5 = 87% & Grades 6-12 = 72%  School Safety – Percentage of students who feel physically and psychologically safe at school: Grades 3-5 = 72% & Grades 6-12 = 69%  The survey will be re-administered in the winter of 2020. Additionally, student stakeholder meetings will be held to gather direct input which will be incorporated in the development of the LCAP, along with the survey findings, in the spring of 2020.|2019-10-08||Met|2019
58105875830112|Yuba County Career Preparatory Charter|6|In the spring of 2019 The California Healthy Kids Survey was administered to staff, parents and students. Total number of students who participated: 187 Total school supports Caring adults in school - 9th gr 55%, 10th gr 67%, 11th gr 70%, 12th gr 64% High expectations from adults in school - 9th gr 65%, 10th gr 74%, 11th gr 74%, 12th gr 66% Meaningful participation at school - 9th gr 20%, 10th gr 32%, 11th gr 20%, 12th gr 26% School connectedness - 9th gr 47%, 10th gr 45%, 11th gr 48%, 12th gr 53% Academic motivation - 9th gr 64%, 10th gr 58%, 11th gr 59%, 12th gr 63% Parent involvement in school - 9th gr 61%, 10th gr 51%, 11th gr 53%, 12th gr 60% School perceived as safe - 9th gr 67%, 10th gr 67%, 11th gr 64%, 12th gr 75% Verbal Harassment at School, Past 12 Months - 9th gr 42%, 10th gr 19%, 11th gr 16%, 12th gr 7% Cyber Bullying, Never in the past 12 Months - 9th gr 72%, 10th gr 89%, 11th gr 81%, 12th gr 98%  Strengths/growth: We have included an academic advisor who is connecting with students and families around students academic and transition plans. We are offering more opportunities for students and families to be on our site including: Independent Study CTE program, FAFSA and Dual Enrollment information meetings, we have more parents involved in our advisory board, and we have increased participation in our school counsel.   Challenges/barriers: Our student population comes to us having had challenging academic or personal experience and they choose not to be on site for more than 2-3 hours in a week. It is challenging to connect with students who do not want to be on a school campus. Continuous improvement/actions: We are continuously collaborating with staff and community members to design activities and programs that will encourage more site based opportunities. We are working toward adding new CTE programs to add more variety to our offering hoping to encourage more participation on site.|2019-10-09|Because we are a DASS school we have many students who come to us reporting they have had challenging experiences in their previous educational experiences or they have other barriers like transportation, housing, are young parents, or had other trauma related experience. Working with these circumstances can often be the first order of business before we are able to really move social/emotional and academic concerns to overall school climate concerns.  The fact that YCCPCS has had four principals in five years as well as several changes in student information systems, assessment systems, and other policies and procedures, it can be challenging for staff and students to get into a routine and focus on things that would provide more progress in our school climate area.|Met|2019
58105870000000|Yuba County Office of Education|6|Thomas E. Mathews Community School reports 25% of the students report school connectedness. Harry P. B. Carden School did not report.  According to CHKS findings, on the 2015-17 State CHKS, the average percentage of students strongly agreeing to school connectedness questions declined from 28 percent in 7th grade to 15 percent in 11th, a decline similar to that found for the Academic Motivation scale. This may be related at least in part to their lower levels of developmental support. Prior analyses have indicated that the lowest rates of both connectedness and test scores are in low-income schools. In comparison to State CHKS, Thomas E. Mathews student’s school connectedness appears to be increasing.  Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS) will continue to be implemented at both Thomas E. Mathews and Harry P B Carden. PBIS is a research based program that is proven to reinforce positive behavior and increase connectedness and an increased sense of safety at school.  Yuba County Office of Education LCAP continues to support PBIS, Behavioral Health counseling, Student Resource Officer, Probation Officer to ensure a safe learning environment for all students.|2019-10-09||Met|2019
58105870117242|Yuba Environmental Science Charter Academy|6|We administered a school administration made survey to parents through Parent Square. We did not survey students. Our goal for the 2019-2020 school year is to administer the Healthy Kids survey to one grade in K-5 and one grade in 6-8.|2019-10-04||Met|2019
29102980114322|Yuba River Charter|6|In regards to our local climate survey results administered in the Spring of 2019, we asked several questions concerning student perceptions of their school environment. 82.54% agreed that “I am accepted for my cultural background and identity” 59.38% agreed that “I feel a belonging to the greater school community” 82.82% agree that “I feel connected to my teacher” 81.26% agree that “My teacher and I have healthy communication” 85.71% agree that “I feel welcomed at school” 93.44% agree that “I feel safe at school”  In reviewing the survey results, we noticed a consistent agreement with a high perception of connection with a student's own class and teacher, and less agreement that they felt the same level of connection to the school as a whole.   We will use some of the same language in our next year's survey, as well as add additional questions that may solicit more detail in the students' own recommendation for school improvement.|2019-10-02||Met|2019
36679590000000|Yucaipa-Calimesa Joint Unified|6|YCJUSD administered the Gallup Student Poll to students in grades 5-12. The Gallup Student Poll is a nation-wide poll that allows our schools to monitor progress from year to year in student perspectives, and compare them with the national average. In the Gallup Student Poll, the "engagement" section provides a measure of students' sense of school safety and school connectedness. This year's results indicate an increase in the "engagement" metric from the previous year. This is the second consecutive year the "engagement " metric has increased. Also relevant to school climate is the "hope" section of the Gallup Student Poll, which measures the ideas and energy students have for the future. This year's results indicate a slight increase in the "hope" metric. YCJUSD is above the national average in both "engagement" and "hope".|2019-10-22||Met|2019
